December 2007
Full-Length LSAT

1	

			 1

1	
SECTION I
Time—35 minutes
25 Questions

Directions: The questions in this section are based on the reasoning contained in brief statements or passages. For some questions,
more than one of the choices could conceivably answer the question. However, you are to choose the best answer; that is, the response
that most accurately and completely answers the question. You should not make assumptions that are by commonsense standards
implausible, superfluous, or incompatible with the passage. After you have chosen the best answer, blacken the corresponding space
on your answer sheet.
1.	 Consumer advocate: Businesses are typically
motivated primarily by the desire to make as
great a profit as possible, and advertising helps
businesses to achieve this goal. But it is clear that
the motive of maximizing profits does not impel
businesses to present accurate information in their
advertisements. It follows that consumers should
be skeptical of the claims made in advertisements.
	

3.	 Science columnist: It is clear why humans have
so many diseases in common with cats. Many
human diseases are genetically based, and cats
are genetically closer to humans than are any
other mammals except nonhuman primates. Each
of the genes identified so far in cats has an exact
counterpart in humans.
	

Each of the following, if true, would strengthen the
consumer advocate’s argument EXCEPT:
(A)	

Businesses know that they can usually maximize
their profits by using inaccurate information in
their advertisements.
(B)	 Businesses have often included inaccurate
information in their advertisements.
(C) 	 Many consumers have a cynical attitude toward
advertising.
(D) 	 Those who create advertisements are less
concerned with the accuracy than with the
creativity of advertisements.
(E) 	 The laws regulating truth in advertising are not
applicable to many of the most common forms
of inaccurate advertising.
2.	 Elaine: The purpose of art museums is to preserve
artworks and make them available to the public.
Museums, therefore, should seek to acquire
and display the best examples of artworks from
each artistic period and genre, even if some of
these works are not recognized by experts as
masterpieces.
	

Frederick: Art museums ought to devote their limited
resources to acquiring the works of recognized
masters in order to ensure the preservation of the
greatest artworks.

	

Elaine’s and Frederick’s statements provide the most
support for the claim that they would disagree about
whether
(A) 	 many artistic masterpieces are not recognized as
such by art experts
(B) 	 museums should seek to represent all genres of
art in their collections’
(C) 	 art museums should seek to preserve works of art
(D) 	 an art museum ought to acquire an unusual
example of a period or genre if more characteristic
	
examples are prohibitively expensive
(E) 	 all of the artworks that experts identify as
masterpieces are actually masterpieces

Which one of the following, if true, most weakens
the science columnist’s explanation for the claim that
humans have so many diseases in common with cats?
(A) 	 Cats have built up resistance to many of the
diseases they have in common with humans.
(B) 	 Most diseases that humans have in common with
cats have no genetic basis.
(C) 	 Cats have more diseases in common with
nonhuman primates than with humans.
(D) 	 Many of the diseases humans have in common
with cats are mild and are rarely diagnosed.
(E) 	 Humans have more genes in common with
nonhuman primates than with cats.

4.	 This region must find new ways to help business grow.
After all, shoe manufacturing used to be a major local
industry, but recently has experienced severe setbacks
due to overseas competition, so there is a need for
expansion into new manufacturing areas. Moreover,
our outdated public policy generally inhibits business
growth.
	

Which one of the following most accurately expresses
the main conclusion drawn in the argument?
(A) 	 The region needs to find new ways to enhance
business growth.
(B) 	 Shoe manufacturing is no longer a major source
of income in the region.
(C) 	 Shoe manufacturing in the region has
dramatically declined due to overseas
competition.
(D) 	 Business in the region must expand into new
areas of manufacturing.
(E) 	 Outdated public policy inhibits business growth
in the region.

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

1	

			 1

1	
5. 	 As a result of modern medicine, more people have
been able to enjoy long and pain-free lives. But the
resulting increase in life expectancy has contributed to
a steady increase in the proportion of the population
that is of advanced age. This population shift is creating
potentially devastating financial problems for some
social welfare programs. 	
	
	
Which one of the following propositions is most
precisely exemplified by the situation presented above? 	

7.	 Superconductors are substances that conduct electricity
without resistance at low temperatures. Their use,
however, will never be economically feasible, unless
there is a substance that superconducts at a temperature
above minus 148 degrees Celsius. If there is such a
substance, that substance must be an alloy of niobium and
	
germanium. Unfortunately, such alloys superconduct at
temperatures no higher than minus 160 degrees Celsius.
	

(A) 	 Technical or scientific innovation cannot be the
solution to all problems. 	
(B) 	 Implementing technological innovations should
be delayed until the resulting social changes can
be managed. 	
(C) 	 Every enhancement of the quality of life has
unavoidable negative consequences. 	
(D) 	 All social institutions are affected by a
preoccupation with prolonging life. 	
(E) 	 Solving one set of problems can create a
different set of problems. 	
6. 	 Since Jackie is such a big fan of Moral Vacuum’s music,
she will probably like The Cruel Herd’s new album.
Like Moral Vacuum, The Cruel Herd on this album
plays complex rock music that employs the acoustic
instrumentation and harmonic sophistication of early
sixties jazz. The Cruel Herd also has very witty lyrics,
full of puns and sardonic humor, like some of Moral
Vacuum’s best lyrics. 	
	

Which one of the following, if true, most strengthens
the argument?
(A)	

(B)	

(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

Jackie has not previously cared for The Cruel
Herd, but on the new album The Cruel Herd’s
previous musical arranger has been replaced by
Moral Vacuum’s musical arranger.
Though The Cruel Herd’s previous albums’
production quality was not great, the new
album is produced by one of the most widely
employed producers in the music industry.
Like Moral Vacuum, The Cruel Herd regularly
performs in clubs popular with many students at
the university that Jackie attends.
All of the music that Jackie prefers to listen to on
a regular basis is rock music.
Jackie’s favorite Moral Vacuum songs have lyrics
that are somber and marked by a strong political
awareness.

If the statements above are true, which one of the
following must also be true?
(A) 	 The use of superconductors will never be
economically feasible.
(B) 	 If the alloys of niobium and germanium do not
superconduct at temperatures above minus 148
degrees Celsius, then there are other substances
that will do so.
(C) 	 The use of superconductors could be economically
feasible if there is a substance that superconducts
at temperatures below minus 148 degrees Celsius.
(D) 	 Alloys of niobium and germanium do not
superconduct at temperatures below minus 160
degrees Celsius.
(E) 	 No use of alloys of niobium and germanium will
ever be economically feasible.

8.	 Doctor: In three separate studies, researchers compared
children who had slept with night-lights in their
rooms as infants to children who had not. In the
first study, the children who had slept with night­
lights proved more likely to be nearsighted, but the
later studies found no correlation between night­
lights and nearsightedness. However, the children
in the first study were younger than those in the
later studies. This suggests that if night-lights cause
nearsightedness, the effect disappears with age.
	

Which one of the following, if true, would most weaken
the doctor’s argument?
(A) 	 A fourth study comparing infants who were
currently sleeping with night-lights to infants
who were not did not find any correlation
between night-lights and nearsightedness.
(B) 	 On average, young children who are already very
nearsighted are no more likely to sleep with
night-lights than young children who are not
already nearsighted.
(C) 	 In a study involving children who had not slept
with night-lights as infants but had slept with
night-lights when they were older, most of the
children studied were not nearsighted.
(D) 	 The two studies in which no correlation was
found did not examine enough children to
provide significant support for any conclusion
regarding a causal relationship between nightlights and nearsightedness.
(E) 	 In a fourth study involving 100 children who
were older than those in any of the first three
studies, several of the children who had slept
with night-lights as infants were nearsighted.
GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

1	

			 1

1	
9.	 Global surveys estimate the earth’s population of
nesting female leatherback turtles has fallen by more
than two-thirds in the past 15 years. Any species whose
population declines by more than two-thirds in 15 years
is in grave danger of extinction, so the leatherback turtle
is clearly in danger of extinction.
	

Whi	ch one of the following is an assumption that the
argument requires?
(A)	
(B)	

(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

The decline in the population of nesting female
leatherback turtles is proportional to the decline
in the leatherback turtle population as a whole.
If the global population of leatherback turtles
falls by more than two-thirds over the next
15 years, the species will eventually become
extinct.
The global population of leatherback turtles
consists in roughly equal numbers of females
and males.
Very few leatherback turtles exist in captivity.
The only way to ensure the continued survival of
leatherback turtles in the wild is to breed them
in captivity.

10.	 Public health experts have waged a long-standing
educational campaign to get people to eat more
vegetables, which are known to help prevent cancer.
Unfortunately, the campaign has had little impact on
people’s diets. The reason is probably that many people
simply dislike the taste of most vegetables. Thus,
the campaign would probably be more effective if it
included information on ways to make vegetables more
appetizing.
	

Which one of the following, if true, most strengthens
the argument?
(A) 	 The campaign to get people to eat more
vegetables has had little impact on the diets of
most people who love the taste of vegetables.
(B) 	 Some ways of making vegetables more
appetizing diminish vegetables’ ability to help
prevent cancer.
(C) 	 People who find a few vegetables appetizing
typically do not eat substantially more
vegetables than do people who dislike the taste
of most vegetables.
(D) 	 People who dislike the taste of most vegetables
would eat many more vegetables if they knew
how to make them more appetizing.
(E) 	 The only way to make the campaign to get
people to eat more vegetables more effective
would be to ensure that anyone who at present
dislikes the taste of certain vegetables learns to
find those vegetables appetizing.

11.	 Pure science—research with no immediate commercial
or technological application—is a public good. Such
research requires a great amount of financial support
and does not yield profits in the short term. Since
private corporations will not undertake to support
activities that do not yield short-term profits, a society
that wants to reap the benefits of pure science ought to
use public funds to support such research.
	

The claim about private corporations serves which one
of the following functions in the argument?
(A) 	 It expresses the conclusion of the argument.
(B) 	 It explains what is meant by the expression “pure
research” in the context of the argument.
(C) 	 It distracts attention from the point at issue by
introducing a different but related goal.
(D) 	 It supports the conclusion by ruling out an
alternative way of achieving the benefits
mentioned.
(E) 	 It illustrates a case where unfortunate
consequences result from a failure to accept the
recommendation offered.

12.	 Melinda: Hazard insurance decreases an individual’s
risk by judiciously spreading the risk among many
policyholders.
	

Jack:

	

Jack’s response most clearly trades on an ambiguity
in which one of the following expressions used by
Melinda?
(A)	
(B)	
(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

I disagree. It makes sense for me to buy fire
insurance for my house, but I don’t see how doing
so lessens the chances that my house will bum
down.

judiciously spreading
many policyholders
risk
decreases
hazard insurance

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

1	

			 1

1	
13.	 Some doctors believe that a certain drug reduces the
duration of episodes of vertigo, claiming that the
average duration of vertigo for people who suffer
from it has decreased since the drug was introduced.
However, during a recent three-month shortage of the
drug, there was no significant change in the average
duration of vertigo. Thus, we can conclude that the drug
has no effect on the duration of vertigo.
	

Which one of the following is an assumption required
by the argument?
(A) 	 If a drug made a difference in the duration of
vertigo, a three-month shortage of that drug
would have caused a significant change in the
average duration of vertigo.
(B) 	 If there were any change in the average duration
of vertigo since the introduction of the drug, it
would have demonstrated that the drug has an
effect on the duration of vertigo.
(C) 	 A period of time greater than three months would
not have been better to use in judging whether
the drug has an effect on the duration of vertigo.
(D) 	 Changes in diet and smoking habits are not
responsible for any change in the average
duration of vertigo since the introduction of the
drug.
(E) 	 There are various significant factors other than
drugs that decrease the duration of vertigo for
many people who suffer from it.

14.	 It has been suggested that a television set should
be thought of as nothing more than “a toaster
with pictures” and that since we let market forces
determine the design of kitchen appliances we can let
them determine what is seen on television. But that
approach is too simple. Some governmental control
is needed, since television is so important politically
and culturally. It is a major source of commercial
entertainment. It plays an important political role
because it is the primary medium through which many
voters obtain information about current affairs. It is a
significant cultural force in that in the average home it
is on for more than five hours a day.
	

Which one of the following most accurately expresses
the role played in the argument by the claim that
television is so important politically and culturally?
(A) 	 It states a view that the argument as a whole is
designed to discredit.
(B) 	 It is an intermediate conclusion that is offered in
support of the claim that a television set should
be thought of as nothing more than “a toaster
with pictures” and for which the claim that we
can let market forces determine what is seen on
television is offered as support.
(C) 	 It is a premise that is offered in support of the
claim that we let market forces determine the
design of kitchen appliances.
(D) 	 It is an intermediate conclusion that is offered
in support of the claim that some governmental
control of television is needed and for which the
claim that the television is on for more than five
hours a day in the average home is offered as
partial support.
(E) 	 It is a premise that is offered in support of the
claim that television is the primary medium
through which many voters obtain information
about current affairs.

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

1	

			 1

1	
15.	 Earthworms, vital to the health of soil, prefer soil that
is approximately neutral on the acid-to-alkaline scale.
Since decomposition of dead plants makes the top layer
of soil highly acidic, application of crushed limestone,
which is highly alkaline, to the soil’s surface should
make the soil more attractive to earthworms.

17.	 An association between two types of conditions
does not establish that conditions of one type cause
conditions of the other type. Even persistent and
inviolable association is inconclusive; such association
is often due to conditions of both types being effects of
the same kind of cause.

	

	

Which one of the following is an assumption on which
the argument depends?
(A) 	 As far as soil health is concerned, aiding the
decomposition of dead plants is the most
important function performed by earthworms.
(B) 	 After its application to the soil’s surface, crushed
limestone stays in the soil’s top layer long
enough to neutralize some of the top layer’s
acidity.
(C) 	 Crushed limestone contains available calcium
and magnesium, both of which are just as vital
as earthworms to healthy soil.
(D) 	 By itself, acidity of soil does nothing to hasten
decomposition of dead plants.
(E) 	 Alkaline soil is significantly more likely to
benefit from an increased earthworm population
than is highly acidic soil.

16.	 Jurist: A nation’s laws must be viewed as expressions
of a moral code that transcends those laws and
serves as a measure of their adequacy. Otherwise,
a society can have no sound basis for preferring
any given set of laws to all others. Thus, any
moral prohibition against the violation of statutes
must leave room for exceptions.
	

Which one of the following can be properly inferred
from the jurist’s statements?
(A) 	 Those who formulate statutes are not primarily
concerned with morality when they do so.
(B) 	 Sometimes criteria other than the criteria derived
from a moral code should be used in choosing
one set of laws over another.
(C) 	 Unless it is legally forbidden ever to violate some
moral rules, moral behavior and compliance
with laws are indistinguishable.
(D) 	 There is no statute that a nation’s citizens have a
moral obligation to obey.
(E) 	 A nation’s laws can sometimes come into
conflict with the moral code they express.

Which one of the following judgments most closely
conforms to the principle stated above?
(A) 	 Some people claim that rapid growth of the
money supply is what causes inflation. But this
is a naive view. What these people do not realize
is that growth in the money supply and inflation
are actually one and the same phenomenon.
(B) 	 People who have high blood pressure tend to be
overweight. But before we draw any inferences,
we should consider that an unhealthy lifestyle
can cause high blood pressure, and weight gain
can result from living unhealthily.
(C) 	 In some areas, there is a high correlation
between ice cream consumption and the crime
rate. Some researchers have proposed related
third factors, but we cannot rule out that the
correlation is purely coincidental.
(D) 	 People’s moods seem to vary with the color of
the clothes they wear. Dark colors are associated
with gloomy moods, and bright colors are
associated with cheerful moods. This correlation
resolves nothing, however. We cannot say
whether it is the colors that cause the moods or
the converse.
(E) 	 Linguists propose that the similarities between
Greek and Latin are due to their common
descent from an earlier language. But how are
we to know that the similarities are not actually
due to the two languages having borrowed
structures from one another, as with the
languages Marathi and Telegu?

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

1	

			 1

1	
18.	 Salesperson: When a salesperson is successful, it is
certain that that person has been in sales for at
least three years. This is because to succeed as a
salesperson, one must first establish a strong client
base, and studies have shown that anyone who
spends at least three years developing a client base
can eventually make a comfortable living in sales.
	

The reasoning in the salesperson’s argument is
vulnerable to criticism on the grounds that it fails to
consider the possibility that
(A) 	 salespeople who have spent three years
developing a client base might not yet be
successful in sales
(B) 	 some salespeople require fewer than three years
in which to develop a strong client base
(C) 	 a salesperson who has not spent three years
developing a client base may not succeed in
sales
(D)	 it takes longer than three years for a salesperson
to develop a strong client base
(E) 	 few salespeople can afford to spend three years
building a client base

19.	 People who have habitually slept less than six hours
a night and then begin sleeping eight or more hours
a night typically begin to feel much less anxious.
Therefore, most people who sleep less than six hours a
night can probably cause their anxiety levels to fall by
beginning to sleep at least eight hours a night.
	

The reasoning in which one of the following arguments
is most similar to that in the argument above?
(A)	

(B)	

(C)	

(D)	

(E)	

When a small company first begins to advertise
on the Internet, its financial situation generally
improves. This shows that most small
companies that have never advertised on the
Internet can probably improve their financial
situation by doing so.
Certain small companies that had never
previously advertised on the Internet have
found that their financial situations began to
improve after they started to do so. So most
small companies can probably improve their
financial situations by starting to advertise on
the Internet.
It must be true that any small company that
increases its Internet advertising will improve
its financial situation, since most small
companies that advertise on the Internet
improved their financial situations soon after
they first began to do so.
Usually, the financial situation of a small
company that has never advertised on the
Internet will improve only if that company starts
to advertise on the Internet. Therefore, a typical
small company that has never advertised on
the Internet can probably improve its financial
situation by doing so.
A small company’s financial situation usually
improves soon after that company first begins
to advertise on the Internet. Thus, most small
companies that have never advertised on the
Internet could probably become financially
strong.

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

1	

			 1

1	
20.	 Biologist: Lions and tigers are so similar to each other
anatomically that their skeletons are virtually
indistinguishable. But their behaviors are known
to be quite different: tigers hunt only as solitary
individuals, whereas lions hunt in packs. Thus,
paleontologists cannot reasonably infer solely on
the basis of skeletal anatomy that extinct predatory
animals, such as certain dinosaurs, hunted in
packs.
	

21.	 The trees always blossom in May if April rainfall
exceeds 5 centimeters. If April rainfall exceeds 5
centimeters, then the reservoirs are always full on May
1. The reservoirs were not full this May 1 and thus the
trees will not blossom this May.
	

(A) 	 If the garlic is in the pantry, then it is still fresh.
And the potatoes are on the basement stairs if
the garlic is in the pantry. The potatoes are not
on the basement stairs, so the garlic is not still
fresh.
(B) 	 The jar reaches optimal temperature if it is held
over the burner for 2 minutes. The contents
of the jar liquefy immediately if the jar is at
optimal temperature. The jar was held over the
burner for 2 minutes, so the contents of the jar
must have liquefied immediately.
(C) 	 A book is classified “special” if it is more than
200 years old. If a book was set with wooden
type, then it is more than 200 years old. This
book is not classified “special,” so it is not
printed with wooden type.
(D) 	 The mower will operate only if the engine is not
flooded. The engine is flooded if the foot pedal
is depressed. The foot pedal is not depressed, so
the mower will operate.
(E) 	 If the kiln is too hot, then the plates will crack. If
the plates crack, then the artisan must redo the
order. The artisan need not redo the order. Thus,
the kiln was not too hot.

The conclusion is properly drawn if which one of the
following is assumed?
(A) 	 The skeletons of lions and tigers are at least
somewhat similar in structure in certain key
respects to the skeletons of at least some extinct
predatory animals.
(B) 	 There have existed at least two species of extinct
predatory dinosaurs that were so similar to each
other that their skeletal anatomy is virtually
indistinguishable.
(C) 	 If skeletal anatomy alone is ever an inadequate
basis for inferring a particular species’ hunting
behavior, then it is never reasonable to infer,
based on skeletal anatomy alone, that a species
of animals hunted in packs.
(D) 	 If any two animal species with virtually
indistinguishable skeletal anatomy exhibit quite
different hunting behaviors, then it is never
reasonable to infer, based solely on the hunting
behavior of those species, that the two species
have the same skeletal anatomy.
(E) 	 If it is unreasonable to infer, solely on the basis
of differences in skeletal anatomy, that extinct
animals of two distinct species differed in their
hunting behavior, then the skeletal remains of
those two species are virtually indistinguishable.

Which one of the following exhibits a flawed pattern
of reasoning most similar to the flawed pattern of
reasoning in the argument above?

22.	 Doctor: Being overweight has long been linked
with a variety of health problems, such as high
blood pressure and heart disease. But recent
research conclusively shows that people who are
slightly overweight are healthier than those who
are considerably underweight. Therefore, to be
healthy, it suffices to be slightly overweight.
	

The argument’s reasoning is flawed because the
argument
(A) 	 ignores medical opinions that tend to lead to a
conclusion contrary to the one drawn
(B) 	 never adequately defines what is meant by
“healthy”
(C) 	 does not take into account the fact that
appropriate weight varies greatly from person to
person
(D) 	 holds that if a person lacks a property that would
suffice to make the person unhealthy, then that
person must be healthy
(E) 	 mistakes a merely relative property for one that
is absolute
GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

1	

			 1

1	
23.	 Robust crops not only withstand insect attacks more
successfully than other crops, they are also less likely
to be attacked in the first place, since insects tend to
feed on weaker plants. Killing insects with pesticides
does not address the underlying problem of inherent
vulnerability to damage caused by insect attacks. Thus,
a better way to reduce the vulnerability of agricultural
crops to insect pest damage is to grow those crops in
good soil—soil with adequate nutrients, organic matter,
and microbial activity.
	

Which one of the following is an assumption on which
the argument depends?
(A) 	 The application of nutrients and organic matter
to farmland improves the soil’s microbial activity.
(B) 	 Insects never attack crops grown in soil
containing adequate nutrients, organic matter,
and microbial activity.
(C) 	 The application of pesticides to weak crops fails
to reduce the extent to which they are damaged
by insect pests.
(D) 	 Crops that are grown in good soil tend to be
more robust than other crops.
(E) 	 Growing crops without the use of pesticides
generally produces less robust plants than when
pesticides are used.

25.	 Occultist: The issue of whether astrology is a science
is easily settled: it is both an art and a science.
The scientific components are the complicated
mathematics and the astronomical knowledge
needed to create an astrological chart. The art is in
the synthesis of a multitude of factors and symbols
into a coherent statement of their relevance to an
individual.
	

The reasoning in the occultist’s argument is most
vulnerable to criticism on the grounds that the argument
(A)	
(B)	
(C)	
(D)	

(E)	

24.	 People perceive color by means of certain
photopigments in the retina that are sensitive to certain
wavelengths of light. People who are color-blind
are unable to distinguish between red and green, for
example, due to an absence of certain photopigments.
What is difficult to explain, however, is that in a study
of people who easily distinguish red from green, 10 to
20 percent failed to report distinctions between many
shades of red that the majority of the subjects were able
to distinguish.
	

presumes, without providing justification,
that any science must involve complicated
mathematics
incorrectly infers that a practice is a science
merely from the fact that the practice has some
scientific components
denies the possibility that astrology involves
components that are neither artistic nor
scientific
incorrectly infers that astronomical knowledge
is scientific merely from the fact that such
knowledge is needed to create an astrological
chart
presumes, without providing justification, that
any art must involve the synthesis of a multitude
of factors and symbols

Each of the following, if true, helps to explain the result
of the study cited above EXCEPT:
(A) 	 People with abnormally low concentrations
of the photopigments for perceiving red can
perceive fewer shades of red than people with
normal concentrations.
(B) 	 Questions that ask subjects to distinguish
between different shades of the same color are
difficult to phrase with complete clarity.
(C) 	 Some people are uninterested in fine gradations
of color and fail to notice or report differences
they do not care about.
(D) 	 Some people are unable to distinguish red from
green due to an absence in the retina of the
photopigment sensitive to green.
(E) 	 Some people fail to report distinctions between
certain shades of red because they lack the
names for those shades.

S T O P
IF YOU FINISH BEFORE TIME IS CALLED, YOU MAY CHECK YOUR WORK ON THIS SECTION ONLY.
DO NOT WORK ON ANY OTHER SECTION IN THE TEST.

2	

2 	

2	 2		
SECTION II
Time—35 minutes
23 Questions

Directions: Each group of questions in this section is based on a set of conditions. In answering some of the questions, it may be
useful to draw a rough diagram. Choose the response that most accurately and completely answers each question and blacken the
corresponding space on your answer sheet.
Questions 1-5
Five performers—Traugott, West, Xavier, Young, and
Zinser—are recruited by three talent agencies—Fame
Agency, Premier Agency, and Star Agency. Each performer
signs with exactly one of the agencies and each agency signs
at least one of the performers. The performers’ signing with
the agencies is in accord with the following:
Xavier signs with Fame Agency.
Xavier and Young do not sign with the same agency as
each other.
Zinser signs with the same agency as Young.
If Traugott signs with Star Agency, West also signs with
Star Agency.
1.	 Which one of the following could be a complete and
accurate list of the performers who sign with each
agency?
(A)	
	
	
(B) 	
	
	
(C) 	
	
	
(D) 	
	
	
(E) 	
	
	

Fame Agency: Xavier
Premier Agency: West
Star Agency: Traugott, Young, Zinser
Fame Agency: Xavier
Premier Agency: Traugott, West
Star Agency: Young, Zinser
Fame Agency: Xavier
Premier Agency: Traugott, Young
Star Agency: West, Zinser
Fame Agency: Young, Zinser
Premier Agency: Xavier
Star Agency: Traugott, West
Fame Agency: Xavier, Young, Zinser
Premier Agency: Traugott
Star Agency: West

3.	 Which one of the following must be true?
(A) 	 West and Zinser do not sign with the same
agency as each other.
(B) 	 Fame Agency signs at most two of the
performers.
(C) 	 Fame Agency signs the same number of the
performers as Star Agency.
(D) 	 Traugott signs with the same agency as West.
(E) 	 West does not sign with Fame Agency.
4.	 The agency with which each of the performers signs is
completely determined if which one of the following is
true?
	
(A) 	 Traugott signs with Fame Agency.
(B) 	 Traugott signs with Star Agency.
(C) 	 West signs with Premier Agency.
(D) 	 Xavier signs with Fame Agency.
(E) 	 Zinser signs with Premier Agency.
5.	 If Zinser signs with Star Agency, which one of the
following must be false?
	
(A) 	 Premier Agency signs exactly one performer.
(B) 	 Star Agency signs exactly three of the
performers.
(C) 	 Traugott signs with Star Agency.
(D) 	 West signs with Star Agency.
(E) 	 None of the other performers signs with the same
agency as Xavier.

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.
2.	 Which one of the following could be true?
(A) 	 West is the only performer who signs with Star
Agency.
(B) 	 West, Young, and Zinser all sign with Premier
Agency.
(C) 	 Xavier signs with the same agency as Zinser.
(D) 	 Zinser is the only performer who signs with Star
Agency.
(E) 	 Three of the performers sign with Fame Agency.

2

2	

2 	
Questions 6-11
A competition is being held to select a design for Yancy
College’s new student union building. Each of six
architects—Green, Jackson, Liu, Mertz, Peete, and Valdez—
has submitted exactly one design. There are exactly six
designs, and they are presented one at a time to the panel of
judges, each design being presented exactly once, consistent
with the following conditions:
Mertz’s design is presented at some time before Liu’s
and after Peete’s.
Green’s design is presented either at some time before
Jackson’s or at some time after Liu’s, but not both.
Valdez’s design is presented either at some time before
Green’s or at some time after Peete’s, but not both.
6.	 Which one of the following could be the order in which
the designs are presented, from first to last?
(A)	
(B)	
(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

Jackson’s, Peete’s, Mertz’s, Green’s, Valdez’s,
Liu’s
Peete’s, Jackson’s, Liu’s, Mertz’s, Green’s,
Valdez’s
Peete’s, Mertz’s, Jackson’s, Liu’s, Green’s,
Valdez’s
Peete’s, Mertz’s, Valdez’s, Green’s, Liu’s,
Jackson’s
Valdez’s, Liu’s, Jackson’s, Peete’s, Mertz’s,
Green’s

2	 2		
9.	 If Jackson’s design is presented at some time before
Mertz’s, then each of the following could be true
EXCEPT:
(A) 	
(B) 	
(C) 	
(D) 	
(E) 	

Jackson’s design is presented second.
Peete’s design is presented third.
Peete’s design is presented fourth.
Jackson’s design is presented fifth.
Liu’s design is presented fifth.

10.	 Which one of the following designs CANNOT be the
design presented first?
	
(A) 	 Green’s
(B) 	 Jackson’s
(C) 	 Liu’s
(D) 	 Peete’s
(E) 	 Valdez’s
11.	 Which one of the following could be an accurate partial
list of the architects, each matched with his or her
design’s place in the order in which the designs are
presented?
	
(A) 	 first: Mertz; fourth: Liu; fifth: Green
(B) 	 second: Green; third: Peete; fourth: Jackson
(C) 	 second: Mertz; fifth: Green; sixth: Jackson
(D) 	 fourth: Peete; fifth: Liu; sixth: Jackson
(E) 	 fourth: Valdez; fifth: Green; sixth: Liu

7.	 Mertz’s design CANNOT be presented
(A)	
(B)	
(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

sixth
fifth
fourth
third
second

8.	 If Liu’s design is presented sixth, then which one of the
following must be true?
(A) 	 Green’s design is presented at some time before
Jackson’s.
(B) 	 Jackson’s design is presented at some time
before Mertz’s.
(C) 	 Peete’s design is presented at some time before
Green’s.
(D) 	 Peete’s design is presented at some time before
Valdez’s.
(E) 	 Valdez’s design is presented at some time before
Green’s.

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

2

2	

2 	
Questions 12-17
Detectives investigating a citywide increase in burglaries
questioned exactly seven suspects­—S, T, V, W, X, Y, and
Z—each on a different one of seven consecutive days. Each
suspect was questioned exactly once. Any suspect who
confessed did so while being questioned. The investigation
conformed to the following:
T was questioned on day three.
The suspect questioned on day four did not confess.
S was questioned after W was questioned.
Both X and V were questioned after Z was questioned.
No suspects confessed after W was questioned.
Exactly two suspects confessed after T was questioned.
12.	 Which one of the following could be true?
	
(A) 	 X was questioned on day one.
(B) 	 V was questioned on day two.
(C) 	 Z was questioned on day four.
(D) 	 W was questioned on day five.
(E) 	 S was questioned on day six.
13.	 If Z was the second suspect to confess, then each of the
following statements could be true EXCEPT:
(A)	
(B)	
(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

T confessed.
T did not confess.
V did not confess.
X confessed.
Y did not confess.

14.	 If Y was questioned after V but before X, then which
one of the following could be true?
	
(A) 	 V did not confess.
(B) 	 Y confessed.
(C) 	 X did not confess.
(D) 	 X was questioned on day four.
(E) 	 Z was questioned on day two.

2	 2		
15.	 Which one of the following suspects must have been
questioned before T was questioned?
(A) 	
(B)	
(C) 	
(D) 	
(E) 	

V
W
X
Y
Z

16.	 If X and Y both confessed, then each of the following
could be true EXCEPT:
	
(A) 	 V confessed.
(B) 	 X was questioned on day five.
(C) 	 Y was questioned on day one.
(D) 	 Z was questioned on day one.
(E) 	 Z did not confess.
17.	 If neither X nor V confessed, then which one of the
following must be true?
(A) 	
(B) 	
(C) 	
(D) 	
(E) 	

T confessed.
V was questioned on day two.
X was questioned on day four.
Y confessed.
Z did not confess.

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

2

2	

2 	

2	 2		

Questions 18-23

20.	 If O’Rourke is on the second-place team, then which
one of the following could be true?

The three highest-placing teams in a high school debate
tournament are the teams from Fairview, Gillom, and
Hilltop high schools. Each team has exactly two members.
The individuals on these three teams are Mei, Navarro,
O’Rourke, Pavlovich, Sethna, and Tsudama. The following
is the case:
Sethna is on the team from Gillom High.
Tsudama is on the second-place team.
Mei and Pavlovich are not on the same team.
Pavlovich’s team places higher than Navarro’s team.
The team from Gillom High places higher than the team
from Hilltop High.
18.	 Which one of the following could be an accurate list
of the members of each of the three highest-placing
teams?
	
(A) 	 first place: Mei and O’Rourke second place:
Pavlovich and Sethna third place: Navarro and
Tsudama
(B) 	 first place: Mei and Pavlovich second place:
Sethna and Tsudama third place: Navarro and
O’Rourke
(C) 	 first place: Navarro and Sethna second place:
Pavlovich and Tsudama third place: Mei and
O’Rourke
(D) 	 first place: O’Rourke and Pavlovich second
place: Navarro and Tsudama third place: Mei
and Sethna
(E) 	 first place: Pavlovich and Sethna second place:
O’Rourke and Tsudama third place: Mei and
Navarro

(A) 	
(B) 	
(C) 	
(D) 	
(E) 	

Mei is on the team from Gillom High.
Navarro is on the team from Fairview High.
O’Rourke is on the team from Gillom High.
Pavlovich is on the team from Hilltop High.
Tsudama is on the team from Gillom High.

21.	 If Pavlovich and Tsudama are teammates, then for how
many of the individuals can it be exactly determined
where his or her team places?
(A) 	
(B) 	
(C) 	
(D) 	
(E) 	

two
three
four
five
six

22.	 If Mei is on a team that places higher than the Hilltop
team, then which one of the following could be true?
(A) 	
(B) 	
(C) 	
(D) 	
(E) 	

The Fairview team places first.
The Gillom team places second.
Navarro is on the second-place team.
O’Rourke is on the first-place team.
Pavlovich is on the first-place team.

23.	 Sethna’s teammate could be anyone of the following
EXCEPT:
	
(A) 	 Mei
(B) 	 Navarro
(C) 	 O’Rourke
(D) 	 Pavlovich
(E) 	 Tsudama

19.	 If Pavlovich is on the team from Hilltop High, then
which one of the following could be true?
	
(A) 	 O’Rourke is on the first-place team.
(B) 	 Pavlovich is on the first-place team.
(C) 	 Mei is on the second-place team.
(D) 	 Navarro is on the second-place team.
(E) 	 Sethna is on the second-place team.

S T O P
IF YOU FINISH BEFORE TIME IS CALLED, YOU MAY CHECK YOUR WORK ON THIS SECTION ONLY.
DO NOT WORK ON ANY OTHER SECTION IN THE TEST.

2

3	

3	

3		3	

3	
SECTION III
Time—35 minutes
25 Questions

Directions: The questions in this section are based on the reasoning contained in brief statements or passages. For some questions,
more than one of the choices could conceivably answer the question. However, you are to choose the best answer; that is, the response
that most accurately and completely answers the question. You should not make assumptions that are by commonsense standards
implausible, superfluous, or incompatible with the passage. After you have chosen the best answer, blacken the corresponding space
on your answer sheet.
1.	 At many electronics retail stores, the consumer has
the option of purchasing product warranties that
extend beyond the manufacturer’s warranty. However,
consumers are generally better off not buying extended
warranties. Most problems with electronic goods
occur within the period covered by the manufacturer’s
warranty.

2.	 Since the 1970s, environmentalists have largely
succeeded in convincing legislators to enact extensive
environmental regulations. Yet, as environmentalists
themselves not only admit but insist, the condition of
the environment is worsening, not improving. Clearly,
more environmental regulations are not the solution to
the environment’s problems.

	

	

Which one of the following, if true, most strengthens
the argument?
(A)	

(B)	

(C)	

(D)	

(E)	

Problems with electronic goods that occur
after the manufacturer’s warranty expires are
generally inexpensive to fix in comparison with
the cost of an extended warranty.
Because problems are so infrequent after the
manufacturer’s warranty expires, extended
warranties on electronic goods are generally
inexpensive.
Most of those who buy extended warranties
on electronic goods do so because special
circumstances make their item more likely to
break than is usually the case.
Some extended warranties on electronic goods
cover the product for the period covered by the
manufacturer’s warranty as well as subsequent
years.
Retail stores sell extended warranties in part
because consumers who purchase them are
likely to purchase other products from the same
store.

	

The argument’s reasoning is flawed because the
argument
(A)	
(B)	
(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

attacks the environmentalists themselves instead
of their positions
presumes, without providing warrant, that only
an absence of environmental regulations could
prevent environmental degradation
fails to consider the possibility that the condition
of the environment would have worsened even
more without environmental regulations
fails to justify its presumption that reducing
excessive regulations is more important than
preserving the environment
fails to consider the views of the
environmentalists’ opponents

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

3	

3	
3.	 Although it is unwise to take a developmental view of
an art like music—as if Beethoven were an advance
over Josquin, or Miles Davis an advance over Louis
Armstrong—there are ways in which it makes sense
to talk about musical knowledge growing over time.
We certainly know more about certain sounds than
was known five centuries ago; that is, we understand
how sounds that earlier composers avoided can be
used effectively in musical compositions. For example,
we now know how the interval of the third, which is
considered dissonant, can be used in compositions to
create consonant musical phrases.
	

Which one of the following most accurately expresses
the main conclusion of the argument?
(A) 	 Sounds that were never used in past musical
compositions are used today.
(B) 	 Sounds that were once considered dissonant are
more pleasing to modern listeners.
(C) 	 It is inappropriate to take a developmental view
of music.
(D) 	 It is unwise to say that one composer is better
than another.
(E) 	 Our understanding of music can improve over
the course of time.

4.	 A recent test of an electric insect control device
discovered that, of the more than 300 insects killed
during one 24-hour period, only 12 were mosquitoes.
Thus this type of device may kill many insects, but
will not significantly aid in controlling the potentially
dangerous mosquito population.
	

3		3	

3	

5.	 Brain-scanning technology provides information about
processes occurring in the brain. For this information to
help researchers understand how the brain enables us to
think, however, researchers must be able to rely on the
accuracy of the verbal reports given by subjects while
their brains are being scanned. Otherwise brain-scan
data gathered at a given moment might not contain
information about what the subject reports thinking
about at that moment, but instead about some different
set of thoughts.
	

Which one of the following most accurately expresses
the main conclusion of the argument?
(A)	
(B)	

(C)	

(D)	
(E)	

It is unlikely that brain-scanning technology will
ever enable researchers to understand how the
brain enables us to think.
There is no way that researchers can know for
certain that subjects whose brains are being
scanned are accurately reporting what they are
thinking.
Because subjects whose brains are being scanned
may not accurately report what they are
thinking, the results of brain-scanning research
should be regarded with great skepticism.
Brain scans can provide information about the
accuracy of the verbal reports of subjects whose
brains are being scanned.
Information from brain scans can help
researchers understand how the brain enables
us to think only if the verbal reports of those
whose brains are being scanned are accurate.

Which one of the following, if true, most seriously
weakens the argument?
(A)	
(B)	
(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

A careful search discovered no live mosquitoes
in the vicinity of the device after the test.
A very large proportion of the insects that were
attracted to the device were not mosquitoes.
The device is more likely to kill beneficial
insects than it is to kill harmful insects.
Many of the insects that were killed by the
device are mosquito-eating insects.
The device does not succeed in killing all of the
insects that it attracts.

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

3	

3	
6.	 Ornithologist: This bird species is widely thought to
subsist primarily on vegetation, but my research
shows that this belief is erroneous. While
concealed in a well-camouflaged blind, I have
observed hundreds of these birds every morning
over a period of months, and I estimate that over
half of what they ate consisted of insects and other
animal food sources.
	

3		3	

3	

8.	 Environmentalist: When bacteria degrade household
cleaning products, vapors that are toxic to humans
are produced. Unfortunately, household cleaning
products are often found in landfills. Thus, the
common practice of converting landfills into
public parks is damaging human health.
	

The reasoning in the ornithologist’s argument is most
vulnerable to criticism on the grounds that the argument

Which one of the following is an assumption the
environmentalist’s argument requires?
(A)	

(A) 	 assumes, without providing justification, that the
feeding behavior of the birds observed was not
affected by the ornithologist’s act of observation
(B) 	 fails to specify the nature of the animal food
sources, other than insects, that were consumed
by the birds
(C) 	 adopts a widespread belief about the birds’
feeding habits without considering the evidence
that led to the belief
(D) 	 neglects the possibility that the birds have
different patterns of food consumption during
different parts of the day and night
(E) 	 fails to consider the possibility that the birds’ diet
has changed since the earlier belief about their
diet was formed

(B)	

(C)	
(D)	

(E)	

In at least some landfills that have been
converted into public parks there are bacteria
that degrade household cleaning products.
Converting a landfill into a public park will cause
no damage to human health unless toxic vapors
are produced in that landfill and humans are
exposed to them.
If a practice involves the exposure of humans to
vapors from household cleaning products, then
it causes at least some damage to human health.
When landfills are converted to public parks,
measures could be taken that would prevent
people using the parks from being exposed to
toxic vapors.
If vapors toxic to humans are produced by the
degradation of household cleaning products
by bacteria in any landfill, then the health of at
least some humans will suffer.

7.	 Educator: Only those students who are genuinely
curious about a topic can successfully learn about
that topic. They find the satisfaction of their
curiosity intrinsically gratifying, and appreciate
the inherent rewards of the learning process itself.
However, almost no child enters the classroom
with sufficient curiosity to learn successfully
all that the teacher must instill. A teacher’s job,
therefore, ________.

9.	 Tea made from camellia leaves is a popular beverage.
However, studies show that regular drinkers of
camellia tea usually suffer withdrawal symptoms
if they discontinue drinking the tea. Furthermore,
regular drinkers of camellia tea are more likely than
people in general to develop kidney damage. Regular
consumption of this tea, therefore, can result in a
heightened risk of kidney damage.

	

	

Which one of the following most logically completes
the educator’s argument?
(A) 	 requires for the fulfillment of its goals the
stimulation as well as the satisfaction of
curiosity
(B) 	 necessitates the creative use of rewards that are
not inherent in the learning process itself
(C) 	 is to focus primarily on those topics that do not
initially interest the students
(D) 	 is facilitated by students’ taking responsibility for
their own learning
(E) 	 becomes easier if students realize that some
learning is not necessarily enjoyable

Which one of the following, if true, most seriously
weakens the argument?
(A) 	 Several other popular beverages contain the same
addictive chemical that is found in camellia tea.
(B) 	 Addictive chemicals are unlikely to cause kidney
damage solely by virtue of their addictive
qualities.
(C) 	 Some people claim that regular consumption of
camellia tea helps alleviate their stress.
(D) 	 Most people who regularly drink camellia tea do
not develop kidney damage.
(E) 	 Many people who regularly consume camellia
tea also regularly consume other beverages
suspected of causing kidney damage.

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

3	

3	
10. 	Artist: Avant-garde artists intend their work to
challenge a society’s mainstream beliefs and
initiate change. And some art collectors claim
that an avant-garde work that becomes popular in
its own time is successful. However, a society’s
mainstream beliefs do not generally show any
significant changes over a short period of time.
Therefore, when an avant-garde work becomes
popular it is a sign that the work is not successful,
since it does not fulfil the intentions of its creator.
	

3		3	

3	

12.	 Many mountain climbers regard climbing Mount
Everest as the ultimate achievement. But climbers
should not attempt this climb since the risk of death
or serious injury in an Everest expedition is very high.
Moreover, the romantic notion of gaining “spiritual
discovery” atop Everest is dispelled by climbers’ reports
that the only profound experiences they had at the top
were of exhaustion and fear.
	

The reference to the claim of certain art collectors
plays which one of the following roles in the artist’s
argument?

(A)	

(A) 	 It serves to bolster the argument’s main
conclusion.
(B) 	 It identifies a view that is ultimately disputed by
the argument.
(C) 	 It identifies a position supported by the initial
premise in the argument.
(D) 	 It provides support for the initial premise in the
argument.
(E) 	 It provides support for a counterargument to the
initial premise.
11.	 A recent epidemiological study found that
businesspeople who travel internationally on business
are much more likely to suffer from chronic insomnia
than are businesspeople who do not travel on business.
International travelers experience the stresses of
dramatic changes in climate, frequent disruption of
daily routines, and immersion in cultures other than
their own, stresses not commonly felt by those who do
not travel. Thus, it is likely that these stresses cause the
insomnia.
	

Which one of the following would, if true, most
strengthen the reasoning above?
(A) 	 Most international travel for the sake of business
occurs between countries with contiguous
borders.
(B) 	 Some businesspeople who travel internationally
greatly enjoy the changes in climate and
immersion in another culture.
(C) 	 Businesspeople who already suffer from
chronic insomnia are no more likely than
businesspeople who do not to accept
assignments from their employers that require
international travel.
(D) 	 Experiencing dramatic changes in climate
and disruption of daily routines through
international travel can be beneficial to some
people who suffer from chronic insomnia.
(E) 	 Some businesspeople who once traveled
internationally but no longer do so complain of
various sleep-related ailments.

Which one of the following principles, if valid, most
helps to justify the reasoning above?

(B)	
(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

Projects undertaken primarily for spiritual
reasons ought to be abandoned if the risks are
great.
Dangerous activities that are unlikely to result
in significant spiritual benefits for those
undertaking them should be avoided.
Activities that are extremely dangerous ought to
be legally prohibited unless they are necessary
to produce spiritual enlightenment.
Profound spiritual experiences can be achieved
without undergoing the serious danger involved
in mountain climbing.
Mountain climbers and other athletes should
carefully examine the underlying reasons they
have for participating in their sports.

13.	 Each of the smallest particles in the universe has
an elegantly simple structure. Since these particles
compose the universe, we can conclude that the
universe itself has an elegantly simple structure.
	

Each of the following arguments exhibits flawed
reasoning similar to that in the argument above
EXCEPT:
(A) 	 Each part of this car is nearly perfectly
engineered. Therefore this car is nearly perfect,
from an engineering point of view.
(B) 	 Each part of this desk is made of metal.
Therefore this desk is made of metal.
(C) 	 Each brick in this wall is rectangular. Therefore
this wall is rectangular.
(D) 	 Each piece of wood in this chair is sturdy.
Therefore this chair is sturdy.
(E) 	 Each sentence in this novel is well constructed.
Therefore this is a well-constructed novel.

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

3	

3	
14.	 Criminologist: A judicial system that tries and
punishes criminals without delay is an effective
deterrent to violent crime. Long, drawn-out
trials and successful legal maneuvering may add
to criminals’ feelings of invulnerability. But if
potential violent criminals know that being caught
means prompt punishment, they will hesitate to
break the law.
	

16.	 Editorial: Contrary to popular belief, teaching
preschoolers is not especially difficult, for they
develop strict systems (e.g., for sorting toys by
shape), which help them to learn, and they are
always intensely curious about something new in
their world.
	

Which one of the following, if true, would most
seriously weaken the criminologist’s argument?
(A) 	 It is in the nature of violent crime that it is not
premeditated.
(B) 	 About one-fourth of all suspects first arrested for
a crime are actually innocent.
(C) 	 Many violent crimes are committed by first-time
offenders.
(D) 	 Everyone accused of a crime has the right to a
trial.
(E) 	 Countries that promptly punish suspected
lawbreakers have lower crime rates than
countries that allow long trials.

15.	 Journalist: Many people object to mandatory
retirement at age 65 as being arbitrary, arguing
that people over 65 make useful contributions.
However, if those who reach 65 are permitted
to continue working indefinitely, we will face
unacceptable outcomes. First, young people
entering the job market will not be able to obtain
decent jobs in the professions for which they were
trained, resulting in widespread dissatisfaction
among the young. Second, it is not fair for those
who have worked 40 or more years to deprive
others of opportunities. Therefore, mandatory
retirement should be retained.
	

3		3	

3	

The journalist’s argument depends on assuming which
one of the following?
(A) 	 Anyone who has worked 40 years is at least 65
years old.
(B) 	 All young people entering the job market are
highly trained professionals.
(C) 	 It is unfair for a person not to get a job in the
profession for which that person was trained.
(D) 	 If people are forced to retire at age 65, there will
be much dissatisfaction among at least some
older people.
(E) 	 If retirement ceases to be mandatory at age 65, at
least some people will choose to work past age
65.

Which one of the following, if true, most seriously
weakens the editorial’s argument?
(A) 	 Preschoolers have a tendency to imitate adults,
and most adults follow strict routines.
(B) 	 Children intensely curious about new things have
very short attention spans.
(C) 	 Some older children also develop strict systems
that help them learn.
(D) 	 Preschoolers ask as many creative questions as
do older children.
(E) 	 Preschool teachers generally report lower levels
of stress than do other teachers.

17.	 Lawyer: A body of circumstantial evidence is like
a rope, and each item of evidence is like a
strand of that rope. Just as additional pieces of
circumstantial evidence strengthen the body of
evidence, adding strands to the rope strengthens
the rope. And if one strand breaks, the rope is not
broken nor is its strength much diminished. Thus,
even if a few items of a body of circumstantial
evidence are discredited, the overall body of
evidence retains its basic strength.
	

The reasoning in the lawyer’s argument is most
vulnerable to criticism on the grounds that the argument
(A) 	 takes for granted that no items in a body of
circumstantial evidence are significantly more
critical to the strength of the evidence than other
items in that body
(B) 	 presumes, without providing justification, that
the strength of a body of evidence is less than
the sum of the strengths of the parts of that body
(C) 	 fails to consider the possibility that if many
items in a body of circumstantial evidence were
discredited, the overall body of evidence would
be discredited
(D) 	 offers an analogy in support of a conclusion
without indicating whether the two types of
things compared share any similarities
(E) 	 draws a conclusion that simply restates a claim
presented in support of that conclusion

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

3	

3	
18.	 Ethicist: Many environmentalists hold that the natural
environment is morally valuable for its own sake,
regardless of any benefits it provides us. However,
even if nature has no moral value, nature can
be regarded as worth preserving simply on the
grounds that people find it beautiful. Moreover,
because it is philosophically disputable whether
nature is morally valuable but undeniable that it is
beautiful, an argument for preserving nature that
emphasizes nature’s beauty will be less vulnerable
to logical objections than one that emphasizes its
moral value.
	

20.	 The ability of mammals to control their internal body
temperatures is a factor in the development of their
brains and intelligence. This can be seen from the
following facts: the brain is a chemical machine, all
chemical reactions are temperature dependent, and
any organism that can control its body temperature
can assure that these reactions occur at the proper
temperatures.
	

19.	 An editor is compiling a textbook containing essays
by several different authors. The book will contain
essays by Lind, Knight, or Jones, but it will not contain
essays by all three. If the textbook contains an essay by
Knight, then it will also contain an essay by Jones.
If the statements above are true, which one of the
following must be true?
(A) 	 If the textbook contains an essay by Lind, then it
will not contain an essay by Knight.
(B) 	 The textbook will contain an essay by only one
of Lind, Knight, and Jones.
(C) 	 The textbook will not contain an essay by
Knight.
(D) 	 If the textbook contains an essay by Lind, then it
will also contain an essay by Jones.
(E) 	 The textbook will contain an essay by Lind.

Which one of the following is an assumption on which
the argument depends?
(A) 	 Organisms unable to control their body
temperatures do not have the capacity to
generate internal body heat without relying on
external factors.
(B) 	 Mammals are the only animals that have
the ability to control their internal body
temperatures.
(C) 	 The brain cannot support intelligence if the
chemical reactions within it are subject to
uncontrolled temperatures.
(D) 	 The development of intelligence in mammals
is not independent of the chemical reactions
in their brains taking place at the proper
temperatures.
(E) 	 Organisms incapable of controlling their internal
body temperatures are subject to unpredictable
chemical processes.

The ethicist’s reasoning most closely conforms to which
one of the following principles?
(A) 	 An argument in favor of preserving nature will
be less open to logical objections if it avoids the
issue of what makes nature worth preserving.
(B) 	 If an argument for preserving nature emphasizes
a specific characteristic of nature and is
vulnerable to logical objections, then that
characteristic does not provide a sufficient
reason for preserving nature.
(C) 	 If it is philosophically disputable whether nature
has a certain characteristic, then nature would
be more clearly worth preserving if it did not
have that characteristic.
(D) 	 Anything that has moral value is worth
preserving regardless of whether people
consider it to be beautiful.
(E) 	 An argument for preserving nature will be less
open to logical objections if it appeals to a
characteristic that can be regarded as a basis
for preserving nature and that philosophically
indisputably belongs to nature.

	

3		3	

3	

21.	 People who object to the proposed hazardous waste
storage site by appealing to extremely implausible
scenarios in which the site fails to contain the waste
safely are overlooking the significant risks associated
with delays in moving the waste from its present unsafe
location. If we wait to remove the waste until we find a
site certain to contain it safely, the waste will remain in
its current location for many years, since it is currently
impossible to guarantee that any site can meet that
criterion. Yet keeping the waste at the current location
for that long clearly poses unacceptable risks.
	

The statements above, if true, most strongly support
which one of the following?
(A)	
(B)	
(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

The waste should never have been stored in its
current location.
The waste should be placed in the most secure
location that can ever be found.
Moving the waste to the proposed site would
reduce the threat posed by the waste.
Whenever waste must be moved, one should
limit the amount of time allotted to locating
alternative waste storage sites.
Any site to which the waste could be moved will
be safer than its present site.

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

3	

3	
22.	 A recent survey indicates that the average number of
books read annually per capita has declined in each of
the last three years. However, it also found that most
bookstores reported increased profits during the same
period.
	

Each of the following, if true, helps to resolve the
survey’s apparently paradoxical results EXCEPT:
(A) 	 Recent cutbacks in government spending have
forced public libraries to purchase fewer
popular contemporary novels.
(B) 	 Due to the installation of sophisticated new
antitheft equipment, the recent increase in
shoplifting that has hit most retail businesses
has left bookstores largely unaffected.
(C) 	 Over the past few years many bookstores have
capitalized on the lucrative coffee industry by
installing coffee bars.
(D) 	 Bookstore owners reported a general shift away
from the sale of inexpensive paperback novels
and toward the sale of lucrative hardback books.
(E) 	 Citing a lack of free time, many survey
respondents indicated that they had canceled
magazine subscriptions in favor of purchasing
individual issues at bookstores when time
permits.

3		3	

3	

23.	 Naturalist: A species can survive a change in
environment, as long as the change is not too
rapid. Therefore, the threats we are creating to
woodland species arise not from the fact that we
are cutting down trees, but rather from the rate at
which we are doing so.
	

The reasoning in which one of the following is most
similar to that in the naturalist’s argument?
(A) 	 The problem with burning fossil fuels is that the
supply is limited; so, the faster we expend these
resources, the sooner we will be left without an
energy source.
(B) 	 Many people gain more satisfaction from
performing a job well-regardless of whether
they like the job-than from doing merely
adequately a job they like; thus, people who
want to be happy should choose jobs they can
do well.
(C) 	 Some students who study thoroughly do well
in school. Thus, what is most important for
success in school is not how much time a
student puts into studying, but rather how
thoroughly the student studies.
(D) 	 People do not fear change if they know what the
change will bring; so, our employees’ fear stems
not from our company’s undergoing change,
but from our failing to inform them of what the
changes entail.
(E) 	 Until ten years ago, we had good soil and our
agriculture flourished. Therefore, the recent
decline of our agriculture is a result of our soil
rapidly eroding and there being nothing that can
replace the good soil we lost.

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

3	

3	
24.	 Professor: A person who can select a beverage from
among 50 varieties of cola is less free than one
who has only these 5 choices: wine, coffee,
apple juice, milk, and water. It is clear, then, that
meaningful freedom cannot be measured simply
by the number of alternatives available; the extent
of the differences among the alternatives is also a
relevant factor.
	

3		3	

3	

The professor’s argument proceeds by
(A) 	 supporting a general principle by means of an
example
(B) 	 drawing a conclusion about a particular case on
the basis of a general principle
(C) 	 supporting its conclusion by means of an analogy
(D) 	 claiming that whatever holds for each member of
a group must hold for the whole group
(E) 	 inferring one general principle from another,
more general, principle

25.	 Principle: Meetings should be kept short, addressing
only those issues relevant to a majority of those
attending. A person should not be required to
attend a meeting if none of the issues to be
addressed at the meeting are relevant to that
person.
	

Application: Terry should not be required to attend
today’s two o’clock meeting.

	

Which one of the following, if true, most justifies the
stated application of the principle?
(A) 	 The only issues on which Terry could make a
presentation at the meeting are issues irrelevant
to at least a majority of those who could attend.
(B) 	 If Terry makes a presentation at the meeting, the
meeting will not be kept short.
(C) 	 No issue relevant to Terry could be relevant to a
majority of those attending the meeting.
(D) 	 If Terry attends the meeting a different set of
issues will be relevant to a majority of those
attending than if Terry does not attend.
(E) 	 The majority of the issues to be addressed at the
meeting are not relevant to Terry.

S T O P

IF YOU FINISH BEFORE TIME IS CALLED, YOU MAY CHECK YOUR WORK ON THIS SECTION ONLY.
DO NOT WORK ON ANY OTHER SECTION IN THE TEST.

4	

4	

4	

4	

4	

SECTION IV
Time—35 minutes
27 Questions
Directions: Each set of questions in this section is based on a single passage or pair of passages. The questions are to be answered
on the basis of what is stated or implied in the passage or pair of passages. For some of the questions, more than one of the choices
could conceivably answer the question. However, you are to choose the best answer; that is, the response that most accurately and
completely answers the question, and blacken the corresponding space on your answer sheet.
		 Asian American poetry from Hawaii, the Pacific
island state of the United States, is generally
characterizable in one of two ways: either as
portraying a model multicultural paradise, or as
(5) 	 exemplifying familiar Asian American literary themes
such as generational conflict. In this light, the recent
work of Wing Tek Lum in Expounding the Doubtful
Points is striking for its demand to be understood on
its own terms. Lum offers no romanticized notions of
(10) 	 multicultural life in Hawaii, and while he does
explore themes of family, identity, history, and
literary tradition, he does not do so at the expense of
attempting to discover and retain a local sensibility.
For Lum such a sensibility is informed by the fact
(15) 	 that Hawaii’s population, unlike that of the
continental U.S., has historically consisted
predominantly of people of Asian and Pacific
island descent, making the experience of its Asian
Americans somewhat different than that of mainland
(20) 	 Asian Americans.
		 In one poem, Lum meditates on the ways in which
a traditional Chinese lunar celebration he is attending
at a local beach both connects him to and separates
him from the past. In the company of new
(25) 	 Chinese immigrants, the speaker realizes that while
ties to the homeland are comforting and necessary, it
is equally important to have “a sense of new family”
in this new land of Hawaii, and hence a new identityone that is sensitive to its new environment.
(30) 	 The role of immigrants in this poem is significant in
that, through their presence, Lum is able to refer both
to the traditional culture of his ancestral homeland as
well as to the flux within Hawaiian society that has
been integral to its heterogeneity. Even in a laudatory
(35) 	 poem to famous Chinese poet Li Po (701-762 A.D.),
which partly serves to place Lum’s work within a
distinguished literary tradition, Lum refuses to offer
a stereotypical nostalgia for the past, instead pointing
out the often elitist tendencies inherent in the work of
(40) 	 some traditionally acclaimed Chinese poets.
		 Lum closes his volume with a poem that further
points to the complex relationships between heritage
and local culture in determining one’s identity.
Pulling together images and figures as vastly
(45) 	 disparate as a famous Chinese American literary
character and an old woman selling bread, Lum
avoids an excessively romantic vision of U.S. culture,
while simultaneously acknowledging the dream of
this culture held by many newly arrived immigrants.
(50) 	 The central image of a communal pot where each

	

person chooses what she or he wishes to eat but
shares with others the “sweet soup! spooned out at
the end of the meal” is a hopeful one; however, it also
appears to caution that the strong cultural
(55) 	 emphasis in the U.S. on individual drive and success
that makes retaining a sense of homeland tradition
difficult should be identified and responded to in
ways that allow for a healthy new sense of identity to
be formed.
1.	 Which one of the following most accurately expresses
the main point of the passage?
(A) 	 The poetry of Lum departs from other Asian
American poetry from Hawaii in that it
acknowledges its author’s heritage but also
expresses the poet’s search for a new local
identity.
(B) 	 Lum’s poetry is in part an expression of the
conflict between a desire to participate in a
community with shared traditions and values
and a desire for individual success.
(C) 	 Lum writes poetry that not only rejects features
of the older literary tradition in which he
participates but also rejects the popular literary
traditions of Hawaiian writers.
(D) 	 The poetry of Lum illustrates the extent to which
Asian American writers living in Hawaii have a
different cultural perspective than those living in
the continental U.S.
(E) 	 Lum’s poetry is an unsuccessful attempt
to manage the psychological burdens of
reconciling a sense of tradition with a healthy
sense of individual identity.

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

4

4	

4	

4	

2.	 Given the information in the passage, which one of the
following is Lum most likely to believe?
(A) 	 Images in a poem should be explained in that
poem so that their meaning will be widely
understood.
(B) 	 The experience of living away from one’s
homeland is necessary for developing a healthy
perspective on one’s cultural traditions.
(C) 	 It is important to reconcile the values of
individual achievement and enterprise with the
desire to retain one’s cultural traditions.
(D) 	 One’s identity is continually in transition and
poetry is a way of developing a static identity.
(E) 	 One cannot both seek a new identity and remain
connected to one’s cultural traditions.
3.	 The author of the passage uses the phrase “the flux
within Hawaiian society” (line 33) primarily in order to
(A) 	 describe the social tension created by the mix of
attitudes exhibited by citizens of Hawaii
(B) 	 deny that Hawaiian society is culturally distinct
from that of the continental U.S.
(C) 	 identify the process by which immigrants learn
to adapt to their new communities
(D) 	 refer to the constant change to which the culture
in Hawaii is subject due to its diverse population
(E) 	 emphasize the changing attitudes of many
immigrants to Hawaii toward their traditional
cultural norms
4.	 According to the passage, some Asian American
literature from Hawaii has been characterized as which
one of the following?
(A)	
(B)	
(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

inimical to the process of developing a local
sensibility
centered on the individual’s drive to succeed
concerned with conflicts between different age
groups
focused primarily on retaining ties to one’s
homeland
tied to a search for a new sense of family in a
new land

4	

4	

5.	 The author of the passage describes Expounding the
Doubtful Points as “striking” (lines 7-8) primarily in
order to
(A) 	 underscore the forceful and contentious tone of
the work
(B) 	 indicate that the work has not been properly
analyzed by literary critics
(C) 	 stress the radical difference between this work
and Lum’s earlier work
(D) 	 emphasize the differences between this work and
that of other Asian American poets from Hawaii
(E) 	 highlight the innovative nature of Lum’s
experiments with poetic form
6.	 With which one of the following statements regarding
Lum’s poetry would the author of the passage be most
likely to agree?
(A)	
(B)	
(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

It cannot be used to support any specific political
ideology.
It is an elegant demonstration of the poet’s
appreciation of the stylistic contributions of his
literary forebears.
It is most fruitfully understood as a meditation on
the choice between new and old that confronts
any human being in any culture.
It conveys thoughtful assessments of both his
ancestral homeland tradition and the culture in
which he is attempting to build a new identity.
It conveys Lum’s antipathy toward tradition
by juxtaposing traditional and nontraditional
Images.

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

4

4	

4	

4	

		 In England the burden of history weighs heavily
on common law, that unwritten code of time-honored
laws derived largely from English judicial custom and
	
precedent. Students of contemporary British law are
(5) 	 frequently required to study medieval cases, to
interpret archaic Latin maxims, or to confront
doctrinal principles whose validity is based solely on
	
their being part of the “timeless reason” of the
English legal tradition. Centuries-old custom serves as
(10) 	 the basis both for the divisions of law school subject
matter and for much of the terminology of legal
redress. Connected not only with legal history but
also with the cultural history of the English people,
common law cannot properly be understood without
(15) 	 taking a long historical view.
		 Yet the academic study of jurisprudence has
seldom treated common law as a constantly evolving
phenomenon rooted in history; those interpretive
theories that do acknowledge the antiquity of
(20) 	 common law ignore the practical contemporary
significance of its historical forms. The reasons
for this omission are partly theoretical and partly
political. In theoretical terms, modern jurisprudence
has consistently treated law as a unified system of
(25) 	 rules that can be studied at any given moment in time
as a logical whole. The notion of jurisprudence as a
system of norms or principles deemphasizes history
in favor of the coherence of a system. In this view, the
past of the system is conceived as no more than
(30) 	 the continuous succession of its states of presence.
In political terms, believing in the logic of law is
a necessary part of believing in its fairness; even
if history shows the legal tradition to be far from
unitary and seldom logical, the prestige of the legal
(35) 	 institution requires that jurisprudence treat the
tradition as if it were, in essence, the application
of known rules to objectively determined facts. To
suggest otherwise would be dispiriting for the student
and demoralizing for the public.
(40) 		 Legal historian Peter Goodrich has argued,
however, that common law is most fruitfully studied
as a continually developing tradition rather than as a
	
set of rules. Taking his cue from the study of
literature, Goodrich sees common law as a sort of
(45) 	 literary text, with history and tradition serving as the
text’s narrative development. To study the common
law historically, says Goodrich, is to study a text in
which fiction is as influential as analysis, perception
as significant as rule, and the play of memory as
(50) 	 strong as the logic of argument. The concept
of tradition, for Goodrich, implies not only the
preservation and transmission of existing forms, but
also the continuous rewriting of those forms to adapt
them to contemporary legal circumstances.

4	

4	

7.	 Which one of the following statements best expresses
the main idea of the passage?
	
(A) 	 The residual influences of common law explain
not only the divisions of subject matter but also
the terminology associated with many legal
procedures.
(B) 	 In the academic study of jurisprudence,
theoretical interpretations of common law
have traditionally been at odds with political
interpretations of common law.
(C) 	 Common law, while often treated as an oral
history of the English people, would, according
to one scholar, be more fruitfully studied as a
universally adaptable and constantly changing
system of rules.
(D) 	 Although obviously steeped in history and
tradition, common law has seldom been studied
in relation to its development, as one theorist
proposes that it be understood.
(E) 	 Although usually studied as a unitary and
logical system of rules and norms, the history
of common law shows that body of law to be
anything but consistent and fair.
8.	 It can be inferred that the author of the passage believes
which one of the following about the history of law in
relation to modern jurisprudence?
(A) 	 Modern jurisprudence misinterprets the nature of
the legal tradition.
(B) 	 The history of law proves the original forms of
common law to be antiquated and irrelevant to
modern jurisprudence.
(C) 	 The history of law, if it is to be made applicable
to modern jurisprudence, is best studied as a
system of rules rather than as a literary text.
(D) 	 Mainstream theories of modern jurisprudence
overlook the order and coherence inherent in
legal history.
(E) 	 Mainstream theories of modern jurisprudence,
by and large devoid of a sense of legal history,
are unnecessarily dispiriting to students and the
public alike.

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

4

4	

4	

4	

9.	 Which one of the following would best exemplify
the kind of interpretive theory referred to in the first
sentence of the second paragraph of the passage?
(A) 	 a theory that traced modern customs involving
property ownership to their origins in medieval
practice
(B) 	 a theory that relied on a comparison between
modern courtroom procedures and medieval
theatrical conventions
(C) 	 a theory that analyzed medieval marriage laws
without examining their relationship to modern
laws
(D) 	 a theory that compared the development of
English common law in the twentieth century
with simultaneous developments in German
common law without examining the social
repercussions of either legal system
(E) 	 a theory that compared rules of evidence in civil
courts with those in criminal courts
10.	 It can be inferred from the passage that Peter Goodrich
would be most likely to agree with which one of the
following statements concerning common law?
(A)	
(B)	
(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

Common law is more fruitfully studied as a relic
of the history of the English people than as a
legal code.
The “text” of common law has degenerated from
an early stage of clarity to a current state of
incoherence.
Without the public’s belief in the justness
of common law, the legal system cannot be
perpetuated.
While rich in literary significance, the “text”
of common law has only a very limited
applicability to modern life.
The common law “text” inherited by future
generations will differ from the one currently in
use.

11.	 Which one of the following best defines the word
“political” as it is used in the second paragraph of the
passage?
	
(A) 	 concerned with the ways by which people seek
to advance themselves in a profession
(B) 	 concerned with the covert and possibly unethical
methods by which governments achieve their
goals
(C) 	 having to do with the maintenance of ethical
standards between professions and the citizenry
(D) 	 having to do with the maintenance of an
institution’s effectiveness
(E) 	 having to do with the manner in which
institutions are perceived by radical theorists

4	

4	

12.	 The passage states that students of British law are
frequently required to study
(A) 	
(B) 	
(C) 	
(D) 	
(E) 	

histories of English politics
episodes of litigation from the Middle Ages
treatises on political philosophy
histories of ancient Roman jurisprudence
essays on narrative development

13.	 Which one of the following best describes the author’s
opinion of most modern academic theories of common
law?
(A) 	 They are overly detailed and thus stultifying to
both the student and the public.
(B) 	 They lack an essential dimension that would
increase their accuracy.
(C) 	 They overemphasize the practical aspects of the
common law at the expense of the theoretical.
(D) 	 They excuse students of the law from the study
of important legal disputes of the past.
(E) 	 They routinely treat the study of the law as an art
rather than as a science.
14.	 The primary purpose of the passage is to
(A)	
(B)	
(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

explain a paradoxical situation and discuss a new
view of the situation
supply a chronological summary of the history of
an idea
trace the ideas of an influential theorist and
evaluate the theorist’s ongoing work
contrast the legal theories of past eras with those
of today and suggest how these theories should
be studied
advocate a traditional school of thought while
criticizing a new trend

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

4

4	

4	
	

4	

The passages discuss relationships between business
interests and university research.

	
Passage A
		 As university researchers working in a “gift
economy” dedicated to collegial sharing of ideas, we
have long been insulated from market pressures. The
recent tendency to treat research findings as
(5) 	 commodities, tradable for cash, threatens this tradition
	
and the role of research as a public good.
		 The nurseries for new ideas are traditionally
universities, which provide an environment uniquely
suited to the painstaking testing and revision of
(10) 	 theories. Unfortunately, the market process and values
	
governing commodity exchange are ill suited to the
cultivation and management of new ideas. With their
shareholders impatient for quick returns, businesses
are averse to wide-ranging experimentation. And, what
(15) 	 is even more important, few commercial enterprises
contain the range of expertise needed to handle the
replacement of shattered theoretical frameworks.
		 Further, since entrepreneurs usually have little
affinity for adventure of the intellectual sort, they can
(20) 	 buy research and bury its products, hiding knowledge
useful to society or to their competitors. The growth of
	
industrial biotechnology, for example, has been
accompanied by a reduction in the free sharing of
research methods and results-a high price to pay for
(25) 	 the undoubted benefits of new drugs and therapies.
		 Important new experimental results once led
university scientists to rush down the hall and share
their excitement with colleagues. When instead the
rush is to patent lawyers and venture capitalists, I
(30) 	 worry about the long-term future of scientific
discovery.
	
Passage B
		 The fruits of pure science were once considered
primarily a public good, available for society as a
whole. The argument for this view was that most of
(35) 	 these benefits were produced through government
support of universities, and thus no individual was
entitled to restrict access to them.
		 Today, however, the critical role of science in the
modern “information economy” means that what was
(40) 	 previously seen as a public good is being transformed
into a market commodity. For example, by exploiting
the information that basic research has accumulated
about the detailed structures of cells and genes, the
biotechnology industry can derive profitable
(45) 	 pharmaceuticals or medical screening technologies. In
this context, assertion of legal claims to “intellectual
property”-not just in commercial products but in the
underlying scientific knowledge-becomes crucial.
		 Previously, the distinction between a scientific
(50) 	 “discovery” (which could not be patented) and a
technical “invention” (which could) defined the limits
of industry’s ability to patent something. Today,
however, the speed with which scientific discoveries
can be turned into products and the large profits

4	

4	

(55) 	 resulting from this transformation have led to
a blurring of both the legal distinction between
discovery and invention and the moral distinction
between what should and should not be patented.
		 Industry argues that if it has supported-either in
(60) 	 its own laboratories or in a university-the makers of a
scientific discovery, then it is entitled to seek a return
on its investment, either by charging others for using
the discovery or by keeping it for its own exclusive
use.
15.	 Which one of the following is discussed in passage B
but not in passage A?
(A) 	 the blurring of the legal distinction between
discovery and invention
(B) 	 the general effects of the market on the exchange
of scientific knowledge
(C) 	 the role of scientific research in supplying public
goods
(D) 	 new pharmaceuticals that result from industrial
research
(E) 	 industry’s practice of restricting access to
research findings
16.	 Both passages place in opposition the members of
which one of the following pairs?
	
(A) 	 commercially successful research and
commercially unsuccessful research
(B) 	 research methods and research results
(C) 	 a marketable commodity and a public good
(D) 	 a discovery and an invention
(E) 	 scientific research and other types of inquiry

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

4

4	

4	

4	

17.	 Both passages refer to which one of the following?
(A) 	
(B) 	
(C) 	
(D) 	
(E) 	

theoretical frameworks
venture capitalists
physics and chemistry
industrial biotechnology
shareholders

18.	 It can be inferred from the passages that the authors
believe that the increased constraint on access to
scientific information and ideas arises from
(A) 	 the enormous increase in the volume of scientific
knowledge that is being generated
(B) 	 the desire of individual researchers to receive
credit for their discoveries
(C) 	 the striving of commercial enterprises to gain a
competitive advantage in the market
(D) 	 moral reservations about the social impact of
some scientific research
(E) 	 a drastic reduction in government funding for
university research

4	

4	

19.	 Which one of the following statements is most strongly
supported by both passages?
(A) 	 Many scientific researchers who previously
worked in universities have begun to work in
the biotechnology industry.
(B) 	 Private biotechnology companies have invalidly
patented the basic research findings of
university researchers.
(C) 	 Because of the nature of current scientific
research, patent authorities no longer consider
the distinction between discoveries and
inventions to be clear-cut.
(D) 	 In the past, scientists working in industry had
free access to the results of basic research
conducted in universities.
(E) 	 Government-funded research in universities has
traditionally been motivated by the goals of
private industry.

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

4

4	

4	

4	

	
	 Sometimes there is no more effective means of
	
controlling an agricultural pest than giving free rein
	
to its natural predators. A case in point is the
	
cyclamen mite, a pest whose population can be
(5) 	 effectively controlled by a predatory mite of the
	
genus Typhlodromus. Cyclamen mites infest
	
strawberry plants; they typically establish themselves
	
in a strawberry field shortly after planting, but their
	
populations do not reach significantly damaging
(10) 	 levels until the plants’ second year. Typhlodromus
	
mites usually invade the strawberry fields during the
	
second year, rapidly subdue the cyclamen mite
	
populations, and keep them from reaching 	
	
significantly damaging levels. 	
(15) 		 Typhlodromus owes its effectiveness as a predator
	
to several factors in addition to its voracious appetite.
	
Its population can increase as rapidly as that of its
	
prey. Both species reproduce by parthenogenesis-a
	
mode of reproduction in which unfertilized eggs
(20) 	 develop into fertile females. Cyclamen mites lay three
	
eggs per day over the four or five days of their
	
reproductive life span; Typhlodromus lay two or three
	
eggs per day for eight to ten days. Seasonal
	
synchrony of Typhlodromus reproduction with the
(25) 	 growth of prey populations and ability to survive at
	
low prey densities also contribute to the predatory
	
efficiency of Typhlodromus. During winter, when
	
cyclamen mite populations dwindle to a few
	
individuals hidden in the crevices and folds of leaves
(30) 	 in the crowns of the strawberry plants, the predatory
	
mites subsist on the honeydew produced by aphids
	
and white flies. They do not reproduce except when
	
they are feeding on the cyclamen mites. These
	
features, which make Typhlodromus well-suited for
(35) 	 exploiting the seasonal rises and falls of its prey, are
	
common among predators that control prey
	
populations. 	
		 Greenhouse experiments have verified the
	
importance of Typhlodromus predation for keeping
(40) 	 cyclamen mites in check. One group of strawberry
	
plants was stocked with both predator and prey mites;
	
a second group was kept predator-free by regular
	
application of parathion, an insecticide that kills the
	
predatory species but does not affect the cyclamen
(45) 	 mite. Throughout the study, populations of cyclamen
	
mites remained low in plots shared with 	
	
Typhlodromus, but their infestation attained
	
significantly damaging proportions on predator-free
	
plants. 	
(50) 		 Applying parathion in this instance is a clear case
	
in which using a pesticide would do far more harm
	
than good to an agricultural enterprise. The results
	
were similar in field plantings of strawberries, where
	
cyclamen mites also reached damaging levels when
(55) 	 predators were eliminated by parathion, but they did
	
not attain such levels in untreated plots. When
	
cyclamen mite populations began to increase in an
	
untreated planting, the predator populations quickly
	
responded to reduce the outbreak. On average,
(60) 	 cyclamen mites were about 25 times more abundant
	
in the absence of predators than in their presence.

4	

4	

20. 	Which one of the following most accurately expresses
the main point of the passage?
(A) 	 Control of agricultural pests is most effectively
and safely accomplished without the use of
pesticides, because these pesticides can kill
predators that also control the pests.
(B) 	 Experimental verification is essential in
demonstrating the effectiveness of natural
controls of agricultural pests.
(C) 	 The relationship between Typhlodromus and
cyclamen mites demonstrates how natural
predation can keep a population of agricultural
pests in check.
(D) 	 Predation by Typhlodromus is essential for
the control of cyclamen mite populations in
strawberry fields.
(E) 	 Similarity in mode and timing of reproduction
is what enables Typhlodromus effectively to
control populations of cyclamen mites in fields
of strawberry plants.
			
21. 	Based on the passage, the author would probably
hold that which one of the following principles
is fundamental to long-term predatory control of
agricultural pests? 	
(A) 	 The reproduction of the predator population
should be synchronized with that of the prey
population, so that the number of predators
surges just prior to a surge in prey numbers.
(B) 	 The effectiveness of the predatory relationship
should be experimentally demonstrable in
greenhouse as well as field applications.
(C) 	 The prey population should be able to survive
in times of low crop productivity, so that the
predator population will not decrease to very
low levels. 	
(D) 	 The predator population’s level of consumption
of the prey species should be responsive to
variations in the size of the prey population.
(E) 	 The predator population should be vulnerable
only to pesticides to which the prey population
is also vulnerable.
			
22. 	Which one of the following is mentioned in the
passage as a factor contributing to the effectiveness of
Typhlodromus as a predator?
(A) 	 its ability to withstand most insecticides except
parathion 	
(B) 	 its lack of natural predators in strawberry fields
(C) 	 its ability to live in different climates in different
geographic regions
(D) 	 its constant food supply in cyclamen mite
populations 	
(E) 	 its ability to survive when few prey are available 	
			
GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

4

4	

4	

4	

23.	 Suppose that pesticide X drastically slows the
reproductive rate of cyclamen mites and has no other
direct effect on cyclamen mites or Typhlodromus. Based
on the information in the passage, which one of the
following would most likely have occurred if, in the
experiments mentioned in the passage, pesticide X had
been used instead of parathion, with all other conditions
affecting the experiments remaining the same?
(A) 	 In both treated and untreated plots inhabited by
both Typhlodromus and cyclamen mites, the
latter would have been effectively controlled.
(B) 	 Cyclamen mite populations in all treated plots
from which Typhlodromus was absent would
have been substantially lower than in untreated
plots inhabited by both kinds of mites.
(C) 	 In the treated plots, slowed reproduction in
cyclamen mites would have led to a loss of
reproductive synchrony between Typhlodromus
and cyclamen mites.
(D) 	 In the treated plots, Typhlodromus populations
would have decreased temporarily and would
have eventually increased.
(E) 	 In the treated plots, cyclamen mite populations
would have reached significantly damaging
levels more slowly, but would have remained at
those levels longer, than in untreated plots.
24.	 It can be inferred from the passage that the author
would be most likely to agree with which one of the
following statements about the use of predators to
control pest populations?
(A) 	 If the use of predators to control cyclamen mite
populations fails, then parathion should be used
to control these populations.
(B) 	 Until the effects of the predators on beneficial
insects that live in strawberry fields are
assessed, such predators should be used with
caution to control cyclamen mite populations.
(C) 	 Insecticides should be used to control certain
pest populations in fields of crops only if the
use of natural predators has proven inadequate.
(D) 	 If an insecticide can effectively control pest
populations as well as predator populations,
then it should be used instead of predators to
control pest populations.
(E) 	 Predators generally control pest populations
more effectively than pesticides because they do
not harm the crops that their prey feed on.

4	

4	

25.	 The author mentions the egg-laying ability of each
kind of mite (lines 20-23) primarily in order to support
which one of the following claims?
(A) 	 Mites that reproduce by parthenogenesis do so at
approximately equal rates.
(B) 	 Predatory mites typically have a longer
reproductive life span than do cyclamen mites.
(C) 	 Typhlodromus can lay their eggs in synchrony
with cyclamen mites.
(D) 	 Typhlodromus can reproduce at least as quickly
as cyclamen mites.
(E) 	 The egg-laying rate of Typhlodromus is slower in
the presence of cyclamen mites than it is in their
absence.
26.	 Which one of the following would, if true, most
strengthen the author’s position regarding the practical
applicability of the information about predatory mites
presented in the passage?
(A) 	 The individual Typhlodromus mites that have the
longest reproductive life spans typically also lay
the greatest number of eggs per day.
(B) 	 The insecticides that are typically used for mite
control on strawberry plants kill both predatory
and nonpredatory species of mites.
(C) 	 In areas in which strawberry plants become
infested by cyclamen mites, winters tend to be
short and relatively mild.
(D) 	 Typhlodromus are sometimes preyed upon
by another species of mites that is highly
susceptible to parathion.
(E) 	 Typhlodromus easily tolerate the same range of
climatic conditions that strawberry plants do.
27.	 Information in the passage most strongly supports
which one of the following statements?
(A) 	 Strawberry crops can support populations of
both cyclamen mites and Typhlodromus mites
without significant damage to those crops.
(B) 	 For control of cyclamen mites by another mite
species to be effective, it is crucial that the two
species have the same mode of reproduction.
(C) 	 Factors that make Typhlodromus effective against
cyclamen mites also make it effective against
certain other pests of strawberry plants.
(D) 	 When Typhlodromus is relied on to control
cyclamen mites in strawberry crops, pesticides
may be necessary to prevent significant damage
during the first year.
(E) 	 Strawberry growers have unintentionally caused
cyclamen mites to become a serious crop pest
by the indiscriminate use of parathion.

S T O P
IF YOU FINISH BEFORE TIME IS CALLED, YOU MAY CHECK YOUR WORK ON THIS SECTION ONLY.
DO NOT WORK ON ANY OTHER SECTION IN THE TEST.

4

LSAT® Writing Sample Topic
© 2006 by Law School Admission Council, Inc. All rights reserved.

Directions: The scenario presented below describes two choices, either one of which can be supported on the basis of the
information given. Your essay should consider both choices and argue for one and against the other, based on the two specified
criteria and the facts provided. There is no “right” or “wrong” choice: a reasonable argument can be made for either.
	
Dennis, a photographer and local historian, has been commissioned to write a book about the preservation of photographs. He
has worked out two different approaches to completing the book, which must be finished in two years. Using the facts below, write
an essay in which you argue for one approach over the other based on the following two criteria:
•	
•	

Dennis would like to improve his knowledge of photographic preservation through practical, hands-on experience.
Dennis wants to produce a draft of the book as soon as possible.

	
One approach is for Dennis to take a two-year, part-time position at the photographic archives of a prestigious portrait gallery.
He would help people locate visual images for publication, exhibition, research, or personal use from the archives. He would also
perform various administrative tasks. Over the two-year period, Dennis would learn a great deal about the methodologies and
techniques relating to photographic preservation through routine contact with professional archivists and visiting researchers. He
would also enjoy extensive access to the portrait gallery’s resources during that time.
	
Alternatively, Dennis can take a one-year, full-time position with the local public archives, which has a vast collection of
photographs from the surrounding region dating back to 1865. Dennis would be helping to complete the cataloging and scanning
of those photographs for inclusion in an online system. His extensive responsibilities would include entering historic photographs
into a web-based database, determining the street address or location of scenes depicted in the photographs, transferring historic
photographic negatives to acid-free storage, and retouching scanned images. He would work alongside skilled archivists and would
gain a working knowledge of photographic conservation-preservation procedures.

Scratch Paper

Do not write your essay in this space.

Computing Your Score

Directions:

Conversion Chart:
For Converting Raw Score to the 120-180 LSAT
Scaled Score
LSAT Form 7LSN74

1.	 Use the Answer Key on the next page to check your
	 answers.
2. 	 Use the Scoring Worksheet below to compute your
	 raw score.
3. 	 Use the Score Conversion Chart to convert your
	 raw score into the 120-180 scale.
Scoring Worksheet
1. 	 Enter the number of questions you answered
	 correctly in each section.
Number
Correct
	
	
	
	

SECTION I.	.	 .	 .	 .
SECTION II	.	 .	 .	 .	
SECTION III.	.	 .	 .
SECTION IV.	 .	 .	 .

2. 	 Enter the sum here:	
		
This is your Raw Score.

	

	Reported		
Raw Score
Score	
Lowest		
180
179
178
177
176
175
174
173
172
171
170
169
168
167
166
165
164
163
162
161
160
159
158
157
156
155
154
153
152
151
150
149
148
147
146
145
144
143
142
141
140
139
138
137
136
135
134
133
132
131
130
129
128
127
126
125
124
123
122
121
120

98
97
96
__*
95
94
93
92
91
90
89
88
87
86
84
83
81
80
78
77
75
73
71
70
68
66
64
62
61
59
57
55
53
52
50
48
46
45
43
41
40
38
36
35
33
32
30
29
28
26
25
24
22
21
20
19
18
17
16
15
0

Highest
101
97
96
__*
95
94
93
92
91
90
89
88
87
86
85
83
82
80
79
77
76
74
72
70
69
67
65
63
61
60
58
56
54
52
51
49
47
45
44
42
40
39
37
35
34
32
31
29
28
27
25
24
23
21
20
19
18
17
16
15
14

Answer Key

	
SECTION I
	
1.	 C	
8. 	
	
2.	 B 	
9. 	
	
3. 	 B 	
10. 	
	
4. 	 A 	
11. 	
	
5. 	 E 	
12. 	
	
6. 	 A	
13. 	
	
7. 	 A	
14. 	
	
				
			
	
1.	 B 	
8. 	
	
2.	 A 	
9. 	
	
3. 	 B 	
10. 	
	
4. 	 B 	
11. 	
	
5. 	 C 	
12. 	
	
6. 	 C	
13. 	
	
7. 	 A	
14. 	
		
				
		
	
1.	 A 	
8. 	
	
2.	 C 	
9. 	
	
3. 	 E 	
10. 	
	
4. 	 A 	
11. 	
	
5. 	 E 	
12. 	
	
6. 	 D	
13. 	
	
7. 	 A	
14. 	
		
		
	
1.	
	
2.	
	
3. 	
	
4. 	
	
5. 	
	
6. 	
	
7. 	

D		
A		
D 		
D 		
C 		
A		
D 		

15. 	
16. 	
17. 	
18. 	
19. 	
20.	
21. 	

B	
E	
B	
B	
A	
C	
A	

22.	
23.	
24.	
25. 	

E	
D	
D	
B	

E	
A	
D	
E	
A	
B	
C	

22.	 E	
23.	 B	

E	
B	
A	
E	
A	
D	
C	

22.	
23.	
24.	
25. 	

	 SECTION II	
A		
D		
C 		
B 		
B 		
E		
A 		

15. 	
16. 	
17. 	
18. 	
19. 	
20.	
21. 	

	SECTION III		
A		
E		
B 		
C 		
B 		
B		
A 		

15. 	
16. 	
17. 	
18. 	
19. 	
20.	
21. 	

B	
D	
A	
C	

SECTION IV
A	
C	
D	
C	
D	
D	
D	

8. 	
9. 	
10. 	
11. 	
12. 	
13. 	
14. 	

A		
C		
E 		
D 		
B 		
B		
A 		

15. 	
16. 	
17. 	
18. 	
19. 	
20.	
21. 	

A	
22.	 E	
C	
23.	 A	
D	
24.	 C	
C	
25. 	 D	
D	
26.	 E	
C	
27.	 A	
D 				

