June 2008
Full-Length LSAT

1	

	 	 	1

1	

      

SECTION I
Time—35 minutes
27 Questions
Directions:    Each set of questions in this section is based on a single passage or a pair of passages. The questions are to be answered
on the basis of what is stated or implied in the passage or pair of passages. For some of the questions, more than one of the choices
could conceivably answer the question. However, you are to choose the best answer; that is, the response that most accurately and
completely answers the question, and blacken the corresponding space on your answer sheet.
This passage was adapted from an article published in 1996.
	
	
(5) 	

(10) 	
	

(15) 	
	
	
	
(20) 	

(25) 	

	
(30) 	

(35) 	

(40) 	

(45) 	

	
The Internet is a system of computer networks
that allows individuals and organizations to
communicate freely with other Internet users
throughout the world. As a result, an astonishing
variety of information is able to flow unimpeded
across national and other political borders, presenting
serious difficulties for traditional approaches to
legislation and law enforcement, to which such
borders are crucial.
	
Control over physical space and the objects
located in it is a defining attribute of sovereignty.
Lawmaking presupposes some mechanism for
enforcement, i.e., the ability to control violations. But
jurisdictions cannot control the information and
transactions flowing across their borders via the
Internet. For example, a government might seek to
intercept transmissions that propagate the kinds of
consumer fraud that it regulates within its jurisdiction.
But the volume of electronic communications
crossing its territorial boundaries is too great to allow
for effective control over individual transmissions. In
order to deny its citizens access to specific materials,
a government would thus have to prevent them from
using the Internet altogether. Such a draconian
measure would almost certainly be extremely
unpopular, since most affected citizens would
probably feel that the benefits of using the Internet
decidedly outweigh the risks.
	
One legal domain that is especially sensitive to
geographical considerations is that governing
trademarks. There is no global registration of
trademarks; international protection requires
registration in each country. Moreover, within a
country, the same name can sometimes be used
proprietarily by businesses of different kinds in the
same locality, or by businesses of the same kind in
different localities, on the grounds that use of the
trademark by one such business does not affect the
others. But with the advent of the Internet, a business
name can be displayed in such a way as to be
accessible from any computer connected to the
Internet anywhere in the world. Should such a display
advertising a restaurant in Norway be deemed to
infringe a trademark in Brazil just because it can be
accessed freely from Brazil? It is not clear that any
particular country’s trademark authorities possess,
or should possess, jurisdiction over such displays.
Otherwise, any use of a trademark on the Internet

	
could be subject to the jurisdiction of every country
(50) 	 simultaneously.
	
	
The Internet also gives rise to situations in which
regulation is needed but cannot be provided within
the existing framework. For example, electronic
communications, which may pass through many
(55) 	 different territorial jurisdictions, pose perplexing new
questions about the nature and adequacy of privacy
protections. Should French officials have lawful
access to messages traveling via the Internet from
Canada to Japan? This is just one among many
(60) 	 questions that collectively challenge the notion that
the Internet can be effectively controlled by the
existing system of territorial jurisdictions.
1.	 Which one of the following most accurately expresses
the main point of the passage?
(A) 	 The high-volume, global nature of activity
on the Internet undermines the feasibility of
controlling it through legal frameworks that
presuppose geographic boundaries.
(B) 	 The system of Internet communications
simultaneously promotes and weakens the
power of national governments to control their
citizens’ speech and financial transactions.
(C) 	 People value the benefits of their participation on
the Internet so highly that they would strongly
oppose any government efforts to regulate their
Internet activity.
(D) 	 Internet communications are responsible for a
substantial increase in the volume and severity
of global crime.
(E) 	 Current Internet usage and its future expansion
pose a clear threat to the internal political
stability of many nations.

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

1	

	 	 	1

1	

      
2.	 The author mentions French officials in connection with
messages traveling between Canada and Japan (lines
57-59) primarily to
(A) 	 emphasize that the Internet allows data to be
made available to users worldwide
(B) 	 illustrate the range of languages that might be
used on the Internet
(C) 	 provide an example of a regulatory problem
arising when an electronic communication
intended for a particular destination passes
through intermediate jurisdictions
(D) 	 show why any use of a trademark on the Internet
could be subject to the jurisdiction of every
country simultaneously
(E) 	 highlight the kind of international cooperation
that made the Internet possible
3.	 According to the passage, which one of the following is
an essential property of political sovereignty?
(A) 	 control over business enterprises operating across
territorial boundaries
(B) 	 authority over communicative exchanges
occurring within a specified jurisdiction
(C) 	 power to regulate trademarks throughout a
circumscribed geographic region
(D) 	 control over the entities included within a
designated physical space
(E) 	 authority over all commercial transactions
involving any of its citizens

4.	 Which one of the following words employed by the
author in the second paragraph is most indicative of
the author’s attitude toward any hypothetical measure
a government might enact to deny its citizens access to
the Internet?
(A) 	
(B) 	
(C) 	
(D) 	
(E) 	

benefits
decidedly
unpopular
draconian
risks

5.	 What is the main purpose of the fourth paragraph?
(A) 	 to call into question the relevance of the
argument provided in the second paragraph
(B) 	 to provide a practical illustration that questions
the general claim made in the first paragraph
(C) 	 to summarize the arguments provided in the
second and third paragraphs
(D)	 to continue the argument that begins in the third
paragraph
(E)	 to provide an additional argument in support of
the general claim made in the first paragraph

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

1	

1	

      
Passage A
	
	
Drilling fluids, including the various mixtures
known as drilling muds, play essential roles in oil-well
drilling. As they are circulated down through the drill
pipe and back up the well itself, they lubricate the
(5) 	 drill bit, bearings, and drill pipe; clean and cool the
	
drill bit as it cuts into the rock; lift rock chips
(cuttings) to the surface; provide information about
what is happening downhole, allowing the drillers to
monitor the behavior, flow rate, pressure, and
(10) 	 composition of the drilling fluid; and maintain well
pressure to control cave-ins.
	
	
Drilling muds are made of bentonite and other
clays and polymers, mixed with a fluid to the desired
viscosity. By far the largest ingredient of drilling
(15) 	 muds, by weight, is barite, a very heavy mineral of
density 4.3 to 4.6. It is also used as an inert filler in
some foods and is more familiar in its medical use as
the “barium meal” administered before X-raying the
digestive tract.
(20) 	 	
Over the years individual drilling companies and
	
their expert drillers have devised proprietary
formulations, or mud “recipes,” to deal with specific
types of drilling jobs. One problem in studying the
effects of drilling waste discharges is that the drilling
(25) 	 fluids are made from a range of over 1,000, sometimes
toxic, ingredients-many of them known, confusingly,
by different trade names, generic descriptions, chemical
formulae, and regional or industry slang words, and
many of them kept secret by companies or individual
(30) 	 formulators.
Passage B
	
	
Drilling mud, cuttings, and associated chemicals
are normally released only during the drilling phase of
	
a well’s existence. These discharges are the main
environmental concern in offshore oil production, and
(35) 	 their use is tightly regulated. The discharges are closely
monitored by the offshore operator, and releases are
controlled as a condition of the operating permit.
	
	
One type of mud—water-based mud (WBM)—is
a mixture of water, bentonite clay, and chemical
(40) 	 additives, and is used to drill shallow parts of wells. It
	
is not particularly toxic to marine organisms and
disperses readily. Under current regulations, it can be
	
dumped directly overboard. Companies typically
recycle WBMs until their properties are no longer
(45) 	 suitable and then, over a period of hours, dump the
entire batch into the sea.
	
	
For drilling deeper wells, oil-based mud (OBM) is
	
normally used. The typical difference from WBM is the
high content of mineral oil (typically 30 percent).
(50) 	 OBMs also contain greater concentrations of barite, a
	
powdered heavy mineral, and a number of additives.
OBMs have a greater potential for negative
environmental impact, partly because they do not
disperse as readily. Barite may impact some
(55) 	 organisms, particularly scallops, and the mineral oil
may have toxic effects. Currently only the residues of
	
OBMs adhering to cuttings that remain after the
cuttings are sieved from the drilling fluids may be
discharged overboard, and then only mixtures up to a
(60) 	 specified maximum oil content.

	 	 	1
6.	 A primary purpose of each of the passages is to
(A) 	 provide causal explanations for a type of
environmental pollution
(B) 	 describe the general composition and properties
of drilling muds
(C) 	 point out possible environmental impacts
associated with oil drilling
(D) 	 explain why oil-well drilling requires the use of
drilling muds
(E) 	 identify difficulties inherent in the regulation of
oil-well drilling operations
7.	 Which one of the following is a characteristic of barite
that is mentioned in both of the passages?
(A) 	 It does not disperse readily in seawater.
(B) 	 It is not found in drilling muds containing
bentonite.
(C) 	 Its use in drilling muds is tightly regulated.
(D) 	 It is the most commonly used ingredient in
drilling muds.
(E) 	 It is a heavy mineral.
8.	 Each of the following is supported by one or both of the
passages EXCEPT:
(A) 	 Clay is an important constituent of many, if not
all, drilling muds.
(B) 	 At least one type of drilling mud is not
significantly toxic to marine life.
(C) 	 There has been some study of the environmental
effects of drilling-mud discharges.
(D) 	 Government regulations allow drilling muds to
contain 30 percent mineral oil.
(E) 	 During the drilling of an oil well, drilling mud is
continuously discharged into the sea.

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

1	

	 	 	1

1	

      
9.	 Which one of the following can be most reasonably
inferred from the two passages taken together, but not
from either one individually?
(A) 	 Barite is the largest ingredient of drilling muds,
by weight, and also the most environmentally
damaging.
(B) 	 Although barite can be harmful to marine
organisms, it can be consumed safely by
humans.
(C) 	 Offshore drilling is more damaging to the
environment than is land-based drilling.
(D) 	 The use of drilling muds needs to be more tightly
controlled by government.
(E) 	 If offshore drilling did not generate cuttings, it
would be less harmful to the environment.
10.	 Each of the following is supported by one or both of the
passages EXCEPT:
(A) 	 Drillers monitor the suitability of the mud they
are using.
(B) 	 The government requires drilling companies to
disclose all ingredients used in their drilling
muds.
(C) 	 In certain quantities, barite is not toxic to
humans.
(D) 	 Oil reserves can be found within or beneath
layers of rock.
(E) 	 Drilling deep oil wells requires the use of
different mud recipes than does drilling shallow
oil wells.

11.	 Based on information in the passages, which one of the
following, if true, provides the strongest support for a
prediction that the proportion of oil-well drilling using
OBMs will increase in the future?
(A) 	 The cost of certain ingredients in WBMs is
expected to increase steadily over the next
several decades.
(B) 	 The deeper an offshore oil well, the greater the
concentration of barite that must be used in the
drilling mud.
(C) 	 Oil reserves at shallow depths have mostly been
tapped, leaving primarily much deeper reserves
for future drilling.
(D) 	 It is unlikely that oil drillers will develop more
efficient ways of removing OBM residues from
cuttings that remain after being sieved from
drilling fluids.
(E) 	 Barite is a common mineral, the availability of
which is virtually limitless.
12.	 According to passage B, one reason OBMs are
potentially more environmentally damaging than
WBMs is that OBMs
(A) 	
(B) 	
(C) 	
(D) 	
(E) 	

are slower to disperse
contain greater concentrations of bentonite
contain a greater number of additives
are used for drilling deeper wells
cannot be recycled

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

1	

1	

      
	

(5) 	

(10) 	

(15) 	
	
(20) 	
	
(25) 	

(30) 	
	
(35) 	
	
(40) 	
	

(45) 	
	
	
(50) 	

(55) 	

	
Aida Overton Walker (1880-1914), one of the
most widely acclaimed African American performers
of the early twentieth century, was known largely for
popularizing a dance form known as the cakewalk
through her choreographing, performance, and
teaching of the dance. The cakewalk was originally
developed prior to the United States Civil War by
African Americans, for whom dance was a means of
maintaining cultural links within a slave society. It
was based on traditional West African ceremonial
dances, and like many other African American
dances, it retained features characteristic of African
dance forms, such as gliding steps and an emphasis
on improvisation.
	
To this African-derived foundation, the cakewalk
added certain elements from European dances: where
African dances feature flexible body postures, large
groups and separate-sex dancing, the cakewalk
developed into a high-kicking walk performed by a
procession of couples. Ironically, while these
modifications later enabled the cakewalk to appeal to
European Americans and become one of the first
cultural forms to cross the racial divide in North
America, they were originally introduced with satiric
intent. Slaves performed the grandiloquent walks in
order to parody the processional dances performed at
slave owners’ balls and, in general, the self-important
manners of slave owners. To add a further irony, by
the end of the nineteenth century, the cakewalk was
itself being parodied by European American stage
performers, and these parodies in turn helped shape
subsequent versions of the cakewalk.
	
While this complex evolution meant that the
cakewalk was not a simple cultural phenomenon—
one scholar has characterized this layering of parody
upon parody with the phrase “mimetic vertigo”—it is
in fact what enabled the dance to attract its wide
audience. In the cultural and socioeconomic flux of
the turn-of-the-century United States, where
industrialization, urbanization, mass immigration, and
rapid social mobility all reshaped the cultural
landscape, an art form had to be capable of being
many things to many people in order to appeal to a
large audience.
	
Walker’s remarkable success at popularizing the
cakewalk across otherwise relatively rigid racial
boundaries rested on her ability to address within her
interpretation of it the varying and sometimes
conflicting demands placed on the dance. Middleclass African Americans, for example, often
denounced the cakewalk as disreputable, a complaint
reinforced by the parodies circulating at the time.
Walker won over this audience by refining the
cakewalk and emphasizing its fundamental grace.
Meanwhile, because middle- and upper-class
European Americans often felt threatened by the
tremendous cultural flux around them, they prized
what they regarded as authentic art forms as bastions
of stability; much of Walker’s success with this

	 	 	1
(60) 	 audience derived from her distillation of what was
widely acclaimed as the most authentic cakewalk.
Finally, Walker was able to gain the admiration of
many newly rich industrialists and financiers, who
found in the grand flourishes of her version of the
(65) 	 cakewalk a fitting vehicle for celebrating their
newfound social rank.
13.	 Which one of the following most accurately expresses
the main point of the passage?
(A) 	 Walker, who was especially well known for her
success in choreographing, performing, and
teaching the cakewalk, was one of the most
widely recognized African American performers
of the early twentieth century.
(B) 	 In spite of the disparate influences that shaped
the cakewalk, Walker was able to give the dance
broad appeal because she distilled what was
regarded as the most authentic version in an era
that valued authenticity highly.
(C) 	 Walker popularized the cakewalk by capitalizing
on the complex cultural mix that had developed
from the dance’s original blend of satire and
cultural preservation, together with the effects
of later parodies.
(D) 	 Whereas other versions of the cakewalk
circulating at the beginning of the twentieth
century were primarily parodic in nature, the
version popularized by Walker combined both
satire and cultural preservation.
(E) 	 Because Walker was able to recognize and
preserve the characteristics of the cakewalk as
African Americans originally performed it, it
became the first popular art form to cross the
racial divide in the United States.
14.	 The author describes the socioeconomic flux of the
turn-of-the-century United States in the third paragraph
primarily in order to
(A) 	 argue that the cakewalk could have become
popular only in such complex social
circumstances
(B) 	 detail the social context that prompted
performers of the cakewalk to fuse African and
European dance forms
(C) 	 identify the target of the overlapping parodic
layers that characterized the cakewalk
(D) 	 indicate why a particular cultural environment
was especially favorable for the success of the
cakewalk
(E) 	 explain why European American parodies of the
cakewalk were able to reach wide audiences

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

1	

1	

      
15.	 Which one of the following is most analogous to the
author’s account in the second paragraph of how the
cakewalk came to appeal to European Americans?
(A) 	 Satirical versions of popular music songs are
frequently more popular than the songs they
parody.
(B) 	 A style of popular music grows in popularity
among young listeners because it parodies the
musical styles admired by older listeners.
(C) 	 A style of music becomes admired among
popular music’s audience in part because of
elements that were introduced in order to
parody popular music.
(D) 	 A once popular style of music wins back its
audience by incorporating elements of the style
of music that is currently most popular.
(E) 	 After popular music begins to appropriate
elements of a traditional style of music, interest
in that traditional music increases.
16.	 The passage asserts which one of the following about
the cakewalk?
(A) 	 It was largely unknown outside African
American culture until Walker popularized it.
(B) 	 It was mainly a folk dance, and Walker became
one of only a handful of people to perform it
professionally.
(C) 	 Its performance as parody became uncommon
as a result of Walker’s popularization of its
authentic form.
(D) 	 Its West African origins became commonly
known as a result of Walker’s work.
(E) 	 It was one of the first cultural forms to cross
racial lines in the United States.
17.	 It can be inferred from the passage that the author
would be most likely to agree with which one of the
following statements?
(A)	
(B)	

(C)	

(D)	
(E)	

Because of the broad appeal of humor, satiric art
forms are often among the first to cross racial or
cultural divisions.
The interactions between African American
and European American cultural forms often
result in what is appropriately characterized as
“mimetic vertigo.”
Middle-class European Americans who valued
the cakewalk’s authenticity subsequently came
to admire other African American dances for the
same reason.
Because of the influence of African dance forms,
some popular dances that later emerged in the
United States featured separate-sex dancing.
Some of Walker’s admirers were attracted to
her version of the cakewalk as a means for
bolstering their social identities.

	 	 	1
18.	 The passage most strongly suggests that the author
would be likely to agree with which one of the
following statements about Walker’s significance in the
history of the cakewalk?
(A) 	 Walker broadened the cakewalk’s appeal by
highlighting elements that were already present
in the dance.
(B) 	 Walker’s version of the cakewalk appealed to
larger audiences than previous versions did
because she accentuated its satiric dimension.
(C) 	 Walker popularized the cakewalk by
choreographing various alternative
interpretations of it, each tailored to the interests
of a different cultural group.
(D) 	 Walker added a “mimetic vertigo” to the
cakewalk by inserting imitations of other
performers’ cakewalking into her dance
routines.
(E) 	 Walker revitalized the cakewalk by disentangling
its complex admixture of African and European
elements.
19.	 The passage provides sufficient information to answer
which one of the following questions?
(A) 	 What were some of the attributes of African
dance forms that were preserved in the
cakewalk?
(B) 	 Who was the first performer to dance the
cakewalk professionally?
(C) 	 What is an aspect of the cakewalk that was
preserved in other North American dance
forms?
(D) 	 What features were added to the original
cakewalk by the stage parodies circulating at the
end of the nineteenth century?
(E) 	 For about how many years into the twentieth
century did the cakewalk remain widely
popular?

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

1	

1	

      
	

(5) 	
	
(10) 	

(15) 	
	
	
(20) 	
	

(25) 	

(30) 	

(35) 	
	
(40) 	
	
	
(45) 	

(50) 	
	
(55) 	
	
	

	
In principle, a cohesive group—one whose
members generally agree with one another and
support one another’s judgments—can do a much
better job at decision making than it could if it were
noncohesive. When cohesiveness is low or lacking
entirely, compliance out of fear of recrimination is
likely to be strongest. To overcome this fear,
participants in the group’s deliberations need to be
confident that they are members in good standing and
that the others will continue to value their role in the
group, whether or not they agree about a particular
issue under discussion. As members of a group feel
more accepted by the others, they acquire greater
freedom to say what they really think, becoming less
likely to use deceitful arguments or to play it safe by
dancing around the issues with vapid or conventional
comments. Typically, then, the more cohesive a group
becomes, the less its members will deliberately censor
what they say out of fear of being punished socially
for antagonizing their fellow members.
	
But group cohesiveness can have pitfalls as well:
while the members of a highly cohesive group can
feel much freer to deviate from the majority, their
desire for genuine concurrence on every important
issue often inclines them not to use this freedom. In a
highly cohesive group of decision makers, the danger
is not that individuals will conceal objections they
harbor regarding a proposal favored by the majority,
but that they will think the proposal is a good one
without attempting to carry out a critical scrutiny that
could reveal grounds for strong objections. Members
may then decide that any misgivings they feel are not
worth pursuing—that the benefit of any doubt should
be given to the group consensus. In this way, they
may fall victim to a syndrome known as
“groupthink,” which one psychologist concerned with
collective decision making has defined as “a
deterioration of mental efficiency, reality testing, and
moral judgment that results from in-group pressures.”
	
Based on analyses of major fiascoes of
international diplomacy and military decision making,
researchers have identified groupthink behavior as a
recurring pattern that involves several factors:
overestimation of the group’s power and morality,
manifested, for example, in an illusion of
invulnerability, which creates excessive optimism;
closed-mindedness to warnings of problems and to
alternative viewpoints; and unwarranted pressures
toward uniformity, including self-censorship with
respect to doubts about the group’s reasoning and a
concomitant shared illusion of unanimity concerning
group decisions. Cohesiveness of the decision-making
group is an essential antecedent condition for this
syndrome but not a sufficient one, so it is important
to work toward identifying the additional factors that
determine whether group cohesiveness will deteriorate
into groupthink or allow for effective decision
making.

	 	 	1
20.	 Which one of the following most accurately expresses
the main point of the passage?
(A) 	 Despite its value in encouraging frank
discussion, high cohesion can lead to a
debilitating type of group decision making
called groupthink.
(B) 	 Group members can guard against groupthink if
they have a good understanding of the critical
role played by cohesion.
(C) 	 Groupthink is a dysfunctional collective
decision-making pattern that can occur in
diplomacy and military affairs.
(D) 	 Low cohesion in groups is sometimes desirable
when higher cohesion involves a risk of
groupthink behavior.
(E) 	 Future efforts to guard against groupthink will
depend on the results of ongoing research into
the psychology of collective decision making.
21.	 A group of closely associated colleagues has made a
disastrous diplomatic decision after a series of meetings
marked by disagreement over conflicting alternatives. It
can be inferred from the passage that the author would
be most likely to say that this scenario
(A) 	 provides evidence of chronic indecision, thus
indicating a weak level of cohesion in general
(B) 	 indicates that the group’s cohesiveness was
coupled with some other factor to produce a
groupthink fiasco
(C) 	 provides no evidence that groupthink played a
role in the group’s decision
(D) 	 provides evidence that groupthink can develop
even in some groups that do not demonstrate an
“illusion of unanimity”
(E) 	 indicates that the group probably could have
made its decision-making procedure more
efficient by studying the information more
thoroughly

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

1	

	 	 	1

1	

      
22.	 Which one of the following, if true, would most support
the author’s contentions concerning the conditions
under which groupthink takes place?
(A) 	 A study of several groups, each made up of
members of various professions, found that
most fell victim to groupthink.
(B) 	 There is strong evidence that respectful dissent is
more likely to occur in cohesive groups than in
groups in which there is little internal support.
(C) 	 Extensive analyses of decisions made by a large
number of groups found no cases of groupthink
in groups whose members generally distrust one
another’s judgments.
(D) 	 There is substantial evidence that groupthink is
especially likely to take place when members of
a group develop factions whose intransigence
prolongs the group’s deliberations.
(E) 	 Ample research demonstrates that voluntary
deference to group opinion is not a necessary
factor for the formation of groupthink behavior.
23.	 The passage mentions which one of the following as a
component of groupthink?
(A) 	 unjustified suspicions among group members
regarding an adversary’s intentions
(B) 	 strong belief that the group’s decisions are right
(C) 	 group members working under unusually high
stress, leading to illusions of invulnerability
(D) 	 the deliberate use of vapid, clichéd arguments
(E) 	 careful consideration of objections to majority
positions
24.	 It can be inferred from the passage that both the author
of the passage and the researchers mentioned in the
passage would be most likely to agree with which one
of the following statements about groupthink?
(A) 	 Groupthink occurs in all strongly cohesive
groups, but its contribution to collective
decision making is not fully understood.
(B) 	 The causal factors that transform group cohesion
into groupthink are unique to each case.
(C) 	 The continued study of cohesiveness of groups is
probably fruitless for determining what factors
elicit groupthink.
(D) 	 Outside information cannot influence group
decisions once they have become determined by
groupthink.
(E) 	 On balance, group think cannot be expected to
have a beneficial effect in a group’s decision
making.

25.	 In the passage, the author says which one of the
following about conformity in decision-making groups?
(A) 	 Enforced conformity may be appropriate in some
group decision situations.
(B) 	 A high degree of conformity is often expected of
military decision-making group members.
(C) 	 Inappropriate group conformity can result from
inadequate information.
(D) 	 Voluntary conformity occurs much less
frequently than enforced conformity.
(E) 	 Members of noncohesive groups may experience
psychological pressure to conform.
26.	 In line 5, the author mentions low group cohesiveness
primarily in order to
(A) 	 contribute to a claim that cohesiveness can
be conducive to a freer exchange of views in
groups
(B) 	 establish a comparison between groupthink
symptoms and the attributes of low-cohesion
groups
(C) 	 suggest that there may be ways to make both
cohesive and noncohesive groups more open to
dissent
(D) 	 indicate that both cohesive and noncohesive
groups may be susceptible to groupthink
dynamics
(E) 	 lay the groundwork for a subsequent proposal
for overcoming the debilitating effects of low
cohesion
27.	 Based on the passage, it can be inferred that the author
would be most likely to agree with which one of the
following?
(A)	

(B)	
(C)	

(D)	
(E)	

S T O P

Highly cohesive groups are more likely to
engage in confrontational negotiating styles
with adversaries than are those with low
cohesion.
It is difficult for a group to examine all relevant
options critically in reaching decisions unless it
has a fairly high degree of cohesiveness.
A group with varied viewpoints on a given issue
is less likely to reach a sound decision regarding
that issue than is a group whose members are
unified in their outlook.
Intense stress and high expectations are the key
factors in the formation of groupthink.
Noncohesive groups can, under certain
circumstances, develop all of the symptoms of
groupthink.

IF YOU FINISH BEFORE TIME IS CALLED, YOU MAY CHECK YOUR WORK ON THIS SECTION ONLY.
DO NOT WORK ON ANY OTHER SECTION IN THE TEST.

2	

2   	

2	 2	

	

  

SECTION II
Time—35 minutes
26 Questions
Directions:    The questions in this section are based on the reasoning contained in brief statements or passages. For some questions,
more than one of the choices could conceivably answer the question. However, you are to choose the best answer; that is, the response
that most accurately and completely answers the question. You should not make assumptions that are by commonsense standards
implausible, superfluous, or incompatible with the passage. After you have chosen the best answer, blacken the corresponding space
on your answer sheet.
1. 	 Executive: Our company is proud of its long history
of good relations with its employees. In fact, a
recent survey of our retirees proves that we treat
our employees fairly, since 95 percent of the
respondents reported that they had always been
treated fairly during the course of their careers
with us.
	

3.	 Statistics from the National Booksellers Association
indicate that during the last five years most bookstores
have started to experience declining revenues from the
sale of fiction, despite national campaigns to encourage
people to read more fiction. Therefore, these reading
campaigns have been largely unsuccessful.
	

The executive’s argument is flawed in that it
(A) 	 presents as its sole premise a claim that one
would accept as true only if one already
accepted the truth of the conclusion
(B) 	 relies on evidence that cannot be verified
(C) 	 equivocates on the word “fairly”
(D) 	 bases a generalization on a sample that may not
be representative
(E) 	 presumes, without providing justification, that
older methods of managing employees are
superior to newer ones

2.	 Many of those who are most opposed to cruelty to
animals in the laboratory, in the slaughterhouse, or on
the farm are people who truly love animals and who
keep pets. The vast majority of domestic pets, however,
are dogs and cats, and both of these species are usually
fed meat. Therefore, many of those who are most
opposed to cruelty to animals do, in fact, contribute to
such cruelty.
	

Which one of the following is an assumption made by
the argument?
(A)	
(B)	
(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

Loving pets requires loving all forms of animal
life.
Many of those who are opposed to keeping dogs
and cats as pets are also opposed to cruelty to
animals.
Some people who work in laboratories, in
slaughterhouses, or on farms are opposed to
cruelty to animals.
Many popular pets are not usually fed meat.
Feeding meat to pets contributes to cruelty to
animals.

Which one of the following statements, if true, most
seriously weakens the argument?
(A) 	 Mail order book clubs have enjoyed substantial
growth in fiction sales throughout the last five
years.
(B) 	 During the last five years the most profitable
items in bookstores have been newspapers and
periodicals rather than novels.
(C) 	 Fierce competition has forced booksellers to
make drastic markdowns on the cover price of
best-selling biographies.
(D) 	 Due to the poor economic conditions that have
prevailed during the last five years, most
libraries report substantial increases in the
number of patrons seeking books on changing
careers and starting new businesses.
(E) 	 The National Booksellers Association statistics
do not include profits from selling novels by
mail to overseas customers.

4.	 People who consume a lot of honey tend to have fewer
cavities than others have. Yet, honey is high in sugar,
and sugar is one of the leading causes of tooth decay.
	

Which one of the following, if true, most helps to
resolve the apparent paradox described above?
(A) 	 People who eat a lot of honey tend to consume
very little sugar from other sources.
(B) 	 Many people who consume a lot of honey
consume much of it dissolved in drinks.
(C) 	 People’s dental hygiene habits vary greatly.
(D) 	 Refined sugars have been linked to more health
problems than have unrefined sugars.
(E) 	 Honey contains bacteria that inhibit the growth
of the bacteria that cause tooth decay.

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

2

2	

2   	
5. 	 Byrne: One of our club’s bylaws specifies that any
officer who fails to appear on time for anyone
of the quarterly board meetings, or who misses
two of our monthly general meetings, must be
suspended. Thibodeaux, an officer, was recently
suspended. But Thibodeaux has never missed a
monthly general meeting. Therefore, Thibodeaux
must have failed to appear on time for a quarterly
board meeting.
	

The reasoning in Byrne’s argument is flawed in that the
argument
(A) 	 fails to consider the possibility that Thibodeaux
has arrived late for two or more monthly general
meetings
(B) 	 presumes, without providing justification, that if
certain events each produce a particular result,
then no other event is sufficient to produce that
result
(C) 	 takes for granted that an assumption required to
establish the argument’s conclusion is sufficient
to establish that conclusion
(D) 	 fails to specify at what point someone arriving at
a club meeting is officially deemed late
(E) 	 does not specify how long Thibodeaux has been
an officer

6.	 Manufacturers of writing paper need to add mineral
“filler” to paper pulp if the paper made from the pulp is
to look white. Without such filler, paper products look
grayish. To make writing paper that looks white from
recycled paper requires more filler than is required to
make such paper from other sources. Therefore, barring
the more efficient use of fillers in paper manufacturing
or the development of paper-whitening technologies
that do not require mineral fillers, if writing paper made
from recycled paper comes to replace other types of
writing paper, paper manufacturers will have to use
more filler than they now use.
	

Which one of the following is an assumption on which
the argument depends?
(A) 	 Certain kinds of paper cannot be manufactured
from recycled paper.
(B) 	 The fillers that are used to make paper white are
harmful to the environment.
(C) 	 Grayish writing paper will not be a universally
acceptable alternative to white writing paper.
(D) 	 Beyond a certain limit, increasing the amount of
filler added to paper pulp does not increase the
whiteness of the paper made from the pulp.
(E) 	 The total amount of writing paper manufactured
worldwide will increase significantly in the
future.

2	 2	
  

	

7.	 Environmentalist: The excessive atmospheric buildup
of carbon dioxide, which threatens the welfare
of everyone in the world, can be stopped only by
reducing the burning of fossil fuels. Any country
imposing the strict emission standards on the
industrial burning of such fuels that this reduction
requires, however, would thereby reduce its
gross national product. No nation will be willing
to bear singlehandedly the costs of an action
that will benefit everyone. It is obvious, then,
that the catastrophic consequences of excessive
atmospheric carbon dioxide are unavoidable
unless __________.
	

Which one of the following most logically completes
the argument?
(A) 	 all nations become less concerned with pollution
than with the economic burdens of preventing it
(B) 	 multinational corporations agree to voluntary
strict emission standards
(C) 	 international agreements produce industrial
emission standards
(D) 	 distrust among nations is eliminated
(E) 	 a world government is established

8.	 A clear advantage of digital technology over traditional
printing is that digital documents, being patterns of
electronic signals rather than patterns of ink on paper,
do not generate waste in the course of their production
and use. However, because patterns of electronic signals
are necessarily ephemeral, a digital document can easily
be destroyed and lost forever.
	

The statements above best illustrate which one of the
following generalizations?
(A) 	 A property of a technology may constitute an
advantage in one set of circumstances and a
disadvantage in others.
(B) 	 What at first appears to be an advantage of a
technology may create more problems than it
solves.
(C) 	 It is more important to be able to preserve
information than it is for information to be
easily accessible.
(D) 	 Innovations in document storage technologies
sometimes decrease, but never eliminate, the
risk of destroying documents.
(E) 	 Advances in technology can lead to increases in
both convenience and environmental soundness.

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

2

2	

2   	
9.	 Museum visitor: The national government has
mandated a 5 percent increase in the minimum
wage paid to all workers. This mandate will
adversely affect the museum-going public. The
museum’s revenue does not currently exceed its
expenses, and since the mandate will significantly
increase the museum’s operating expenses, the
museum will be forced either to raise admission
fees or to decrease services.
	

2	 2	
  

11. 	Contrary to recent speculations, no hardware store
will be opening in the shopping plaza. If somebody
were going to open a store there, they would already
have started publicizing it. But there has been no such
publicity.
	

10.	 Helen: Reading a book is the intellectual equivalent of
investing money: you’re investing time, thereby
foregoing other ways of spending that time, in
the hope that what you learn will later afford you
more opportunities than you’d get by spending
the time doing something other than reading that
book.
	

Randi: But that applies only to vocational books.
Reading fiction is like watching a sitcom: it’s just
wasted time.

	

Which one of the following most accurately describes
the technique Randi uses in responding to Helen’s
claims?
(A)	
(B)	
(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

questioning how the evidence Helen uses for a
claim was gathered
disputing the scope of Helen’s analogy by
presenting another analogy
arguing that Helen’s reasoning ultimately leads
to an absurd conclusion
drawing an analogy to an example presented by
Helen
denying the relevance of an example presented
by Helen

Which one of the following most accurately expresses
the conclusion drawn in the argument?
(A) 	 Some people have surmised that a hardware store
will be opening in the shopping plaza.
(B) 	 A hardware store will not be opening in the
shopping plaza.
(C) 	 If somebody were going to open a hardware store
in the shopping plaza, that person would already
have started publicizing it.
(D) 	 It would be unwise to open a hardware store in
the shopping plaza.
(E) 	 There has been no publicity concerning the
opening of a hardware store in the shopping
plaza.

Which one of the following is an assumption required
by the museum visitor’s argument?
(A) 	 Some of the museum’s employees are not paid
significantly more than the minimum wage.
(B) 	 The museum’s revenue from admission fees has
remained constant over the past five years.
(C) 	 Some of the museum’s employees are paid more
than the current minimum wage.
(D) 	 The annual number of visitors to the museum has
increased steadily.
(E) 	 Not all visitors to the museum are required to
pay an admission fee.

	

12.	 Ethicist: Although science is frequently said to be
morally neutral, it has a traditional value system of
its own. For example, scientists sometimes foresee
that a line of theoretical research they are pursuing
will yield applications that could seriously
harm people, animals, or the environment. Yet,
according to science’s traditional value system,
such consequences do not have to be considered in
deciding whether to pursue that research. Ordinary
morality, in contrast, requires that we take the
foreseeable consequences of our actions into
account whenever we are deciding what to do.
	

The ethicist’s statements, if true, most strongly support
which one of the following?
(A)	
(B)	

(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

Scientists should not be held responsible for the
consequences of their research.
According to the dictates of ordinary morality,
scientists doing research that ultimately turns
out to yield harmful applications are acting
immorally.
Science is morally neutral because it assigns
no value to the consequences of theoretical
research.
It is possible for scientists to both adhere to the
traditional values of their field and violate a
principle of ordinary morality.
The uses and effects of scientifically acquired
knowledge can never be adequately foreseen.

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

2

2	

2   	
13.	 Consumers seek to purchase the highest quality at the
lowest prices. Companies that do not offer products that
attract consumers eventually go bankrupt. Therefore,
companies that offer neither the best quality nor the
lowest price will eventually go bankrupt.
	

The conclusion above follows logically if which one of
the following is assumed?
(A)	
(B)	
(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

No company succeeds in producing a product
that is both highest in quality and lowest in
price.
Products that are neither highest in quality nor
lowest in price do not attract consumers.
Any company that offers either the highest
quality or the lowest price will avoid
bankruptcy.
Some consumers will not continue to patronize a
company purely out of brand loyalty.
No company is driven from the market for
reasons other than failing to meet consumer
demands.

14.	 The number of serious traffic accidents (accidents
resulting in hospitalization or death) that occurred on
Park Road from 1986 to 1990 was 35 percent lower
than the number of serious accidents from 1981 to
1985. The speed limit on Park Road was lowered in
1986. Hence, the reduction of the speed limit led to the
decrease in serious accidents.
	

Which one of the following statements, if true, most
weakens the argument?
(A)	
(B)	
(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

The number of speeding tickets issued annually
on Park Road remained roughly constant from
1981 to 1990.
Beginning in 1986, police patrolled Park Road
much less frequently than in 1985 and previous
years.
The annual number of vehicles using Park Road
decreased significantly and steadily from 1981
to 1990.
The annual number of accidents on Park Road
that did not result in hospitalization remained
roughly constant from 1981 to 1990.
Until 1986 accidents were classified as “serious”
only if they resulted in an extended hospital
stay.

2	 2	

	

  

15.	 Humans are supposedly rational: in other words, they
have a capacity for well-considered thinking and
behavior. This is supposedly the difference that makes
them superior to other animals. But humans knowingly
pollute the world’s precious air and water and, through
bad farming practices, deplete the soil that feeds them.
Thus, humans are not rational after all, so it is absurd to
regard them as superior to other animals.
	

The reasoning above is flawed in that it
(A) 	 relies crucially on an internally contradictory
definition of rationality
(B) 	 takes for granted that humans are aware that their
acts are irrational
(C) 	 neglects to show that the irrational acts
perpetrated by humans are not also perpetrated
by other animals
(D) 	 presumes, without offering justification, that
humans are no worse than other animals
(E) 	 fails to recognize that humans may possess a
capacity without displaying it in a given activity

16.	 “Good hunter” and “bad hunter” are standard terms
in the study of cats. Good hunters can kill prey that
weigh up to half their body weight. All good hunters
have a high muscle-to-fat ratio. Most wild cats are good
hunters, but some domestic cats are good hunters as
well.
	

If the statements above are true, which one of the
following must also be true?
(A)	
(B)	
(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

Some cats that have a high muscle-to-fat ratio are
not good hunters.
A smaller number of domestic cats than wild cats
have a high muscle-to-fat ratio.
All cats that are bad hunters have a low muscleto-fat ratio.
Some cats that have a high muscle-to-fat ratio are
domestic.
All cats that have a high muscle-to-fat ratio can
kill prey that weigh up to half their body weight.

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

2

2	

2   	
17.	 Ethicist: The penalties for drunk driving are far more
severe when the drunk driver accidentally injures
people than when no one is injured. Moral
responsibility for an action depends solely on the
intentions underlying the action and not on the
action’s results. Therefore, legal responsibility,
depending as it does in at least some cases
on factors other than the agent’s intentions, is
different than moral responsibility.
	

The claim that the penalties for drunk driving are far
more severe when the drunk driver accidentally injures
people than when no one is injured plays which one of
the following roles in the ethicist’s argument?
(A) 	 It is a premise offered in support of the claim that
legal responsibility for an action is based solely
upon features of the action that are generally
unintended by the agent.
(B) 	 It is offered as an illustration of the claim that
the criteria of legal responsibility for an action
include but are not the same as those for moral
responsibility.
(C) 	 It is offered as an illustration of the claim
that people may be held morally responsible
for an action for which they are not legally
responsible.
(D) 	 It is a premise offered in support of the claim
that legal responsibility depends in at least
some cases on factors other than the agent’s
intentions.
(E) 	 It is a premise offered in support of the claim
that moral responsibility depends solely on the
intentions underlying the action and not on the
action’s result.

2	 2	
  

	

18.	 Columnist: Taking a strong position on an issue makes
one likely to misinterpret or ignore additional
evidence that conflicts with one’s stand. But in
order to understand an issue fully, it is essential to
consider such evidence impartially. Thus, it is best
not to take a strong position on an issue unless
one has already considered all important evidence
conflicting with that position.
	

The columnist’s reasoning most closely conforms to
which one of the following principles?
(A) 	 It is reasonable to take a strong position on an
issue if one fully understands the issue and has
considered the evidence regarding that issue
impartially.
(B) 	 To ensure that one has impartially considered
the evidence regarding an issue on which one
has taken a strong position, one should avoid
misinterpreting or ignoring evidence regarding
that issue.
(C) 	 Anyone who does not understand an issue fully
should avoid taking a strong position on it.
(D) 	 One should try to understand an issue fully if
doing so will help one to avoid misinterpreting
or ignoring evidence regarding that issue.
(E) 	 It is reasonable to take a strong position on
an issue only if there is important evidence
conflicting with that position.

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

2

2	

2   	
19.	 The coach of the Eagles used a computer analysis to
determine the best combinations of players for games.
The analysis revealed that the team has lost only
when Jennifer was not playing. Although no computer
was needed to discover this information, this sort of
information is valuable, and in this case it confirms
that Jennifer’s presence in the game will ensure that the
Eagles will win.
	

The argument above is most vulnerable to criticism on
the grounds that it
(A) 	 infers from the fact that a certain factor is
sufficient for a result that the absence of that
factor is necessary for the opposite result
(B) 	 presumes, without providing justification, that a
player’s contribution to a team’s win or loss can
be reliably quantified and analyzed by computer
(C) 	 draws conclusions about applications of
computer analyses to sports from the evidence
of a single case
(D) 	 presumes, without providing justification, that
occurrences that have coincided in the past must
continue to coincide
(E) 	 draws a conclusion about the value of computer
analyses from a case in which computer
analysis provided no facts beyond what was
already known

2	 2	
  

	

20.	 Of the various food containers made of recycled
Styrofoam, egg cartons are among the easiest to make.
Because egg shells keep the actual food to be consumed
from touching the Styrofoam, used Styrofoam need not
be as thoroughly cleaned when made into egg cartons as
when made into other food containers.
	

Which one of the following is most strongly supported
by the information above?
(A)	
(B)	
(C)	

(D)	

(E)	

No food containers other than egg cartons can
safely be made of recycled Styrofoam that has
not been thoroughly cleaned.
There are some foods that cannot be packaged
in recycled Styrofoam no matter how the
Styrofoam is recycled.
The main reason Styrofoam must be thoroughly
cleaned when recycled is to remove any residual
food that has come into contact with the
Styrofoam.
Because they are among the easiest food
containers to make from recycled Styrofoam,
most egg cartons are made from recycled
Styrofoam.
Not every type of food container made of
recycled Styrofoam is effectively prevented
from coming into contact with the food it
contains.

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

2

2	

2   	
21.	 Most people who become migraine sufferers as adults
were prone to bouts of depression as children. Hence
it stands to reason that a child who is prone to bouts
of depression is likely to suffer migraines during
adulthood.
	

The flawed pattern of reasoning in the argument above
is most parallel to that in which one of the following?
(A) 	 Most good-tempered dogs were vaccinated
against rabies as puppies. Therefore, a puppy
that is vaccinated against rabies is likely to
become a good-tempered dog.
(B) 	 Most vicious dogs were ill-treated when young.
Hence it can be concluded that a pet owner
whose dog is vicious is likely to have treated the
dog badly when it was young.
(C) 	 Most well-behaved dogs have undergone
obedience training. Thus, if a dog has not
undergone obedience training, it will not be
well behaved.
(D) 	 Most of the pets taken to veterinarians are dogs.
Therefore, it stands to reason that dogs are more
prone to illness or accident than are other pets.
(E) 	 Most puppies are taken from their mothers at the
age of eight weeks. Thus, a puppy that is older
than eight weeks is likely to have been taken
from its mother.

22.	 Student: The publications of Professor Vallejo on the
origins of glassblowing have reopened the debate
among historians over whether glassblowing
originated in Egypt or elsewhere. If Professor
Vallejo is correct, there is insufficient evidence
for claiming, as most historians have done for
many years, that glassblowing began in Egypt.
So, despite the fact that the traditional view is
still maintained by the majority of historians, if
Professor Vallejo is correct, we must conclude that
glassblowing originated elsewhere.
	

Which one of the following is an error in the student’s
reasoning?
(A) 	 It draws a conclusion that conflicts with the
majority opinion of experts.
(B) 	 It presupposes the truth of Professor Vallejo’s
claims.
(C) 	 It fails to provide criteria for determining
adequate historical evidence.
(D) 	 It mistakes the majority view for the traditional
view.
(E) 	 It confuses inadequate evidence for truth with
evidence for falsity.

2	 2	
  

	

23.	 At Southgate Mall, mattresses are sold only at Mattress
Madness. Every mattress at Mattress Madness is on sale
at a 20 percent discount. So every mattress for sale at
Southgate Mall is on sale at a 20 percent discount.
	

Which one of the following arguments is most similar
in its reasoning to the argument above?
(A) 	 The only food in Diane’s apartment is in her
refrigerator. All the food she purchased within
the past week is in her refrigerator. Therefore,
she purchased all the food in her apartment
within the past week.
(B) 	 Diane’s refrigerator, and all the food in it, is in
her apartment. Diane purchased all the food in
her refrigerator within the past week. Therefore,
she purchased all the food in her apartment
within the past week.
(C) 	 All the food in Diane’s apartment is in her
refrigerator. Diane purchased all the food in her
refrigerator within the past week. Therefore, she
purchased all the food in her apartment within
the past week.
(D) 	 The only food in Diane’s apartment is in her
refrigerator. Diane purchased all the food in her
refrigerator within the past week. Therefore, all
the food she purchased within the past week is
in her apartment.
(E) 	 The only food that Diane has purchased within
the past week is in her refrigerator. All the food
that she has purchased within the past week is
in her apartment. Therefore, all the food in her
apartment is in her refrigerator.

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

2

2	

2   	

2	 2	
  

	

24.	 There are 1.3 billion cows worldwide, and this
population is growing to keep pace with the demand for
meat and milk. These cows produce trillions of liters
of methane gas yearly, and this methane contributes to
global warming. The majority of the world’s cows are
given relatively low-quality diets even though cows
produce less methane when they receive better-quality
diets. Therefore, methane production from cows could
be kept in check if cows were given better-quality diets.

26.	 The government will purchase and install new severe
weather sirens for this area next year if replacement
parts for the old sirens are difficult to obtain. The
newspaper claims that public safety in the event of
severe weather would be enhanced if new sirens
were to be installed. The local company from which
replacement parts were purchased last year has since
gone out of business. So, if the newspaper is correct, the
public will be safer during severe weather in the future.

	

	

Which one of the following, if true, adds the most
support for the conclusion of the argument?
(A) 	 Cows given good-quality diets produce much
more meat and milk than they would produce
otherwise.
(B) 	 Carbon and hydrogen, the elements that make
up methane, are found in abundance in the
components of all types of cow feed.
(C) 	 Most farmers would be willing to give their cows
high-quality feed if the cost of that feed were
lower.
(D) 	 Worldwide, more methane is produced by cows
raised for meat production than by those raised
for milk production.
(E) 	 Per liter, methane contributes more to global
warming than does carbon dioxide, a gas that is
thought to be the most significant contributor to
global warming.

The argument’s conclusion follows logically from its
premises if which one of the following is assumed?
(A)	
(B)	

(C)	

(D)	

(E)	

25.	 To face danger solely because doing so affords one
a certain pleasure does not constitute courage. Real
courage is manifested only when a person, in acting to
attain a goal, perseveres in the face of fear prompted by
one or more dangers involved.
	

If public safety in the event of severe weather
is enhanced next year, it will be because new
sirens have been purchased.
The newspaper was correct in claiming that
public safety in the event of severe weather
would be enhanced if new sirens were
purchased.
The local company from which replacement
parts for the old sirens were purchased last
year was the only company in the area that sold
them.
Replacement parts for the old sirens will be
difficult to obtain if the government cannot
obtain them from the company it purchased
them from last year.
Because the local company from which
replacement parts had been purchased went out
of business, the only available parts are of such
inferior quality that use of them would make the
sirens less reliable.

Which one of the following statements can be properly
inferred from the statements above?
(A) 	 A person who must face danger in order to
avoid future pain cannot properly be called
courageous for doing so.
(B) 	 A person who experiences fear of some aspects
of a dangerous situation cannot be said to act
courageously in that situation.
(C) 	 A person who happens to derive pleasure from
some dangerous activities is not a courageous
person.
(D) 	 A person who faces danger in order to benefit
others is acting courageously only if the person
is afraid of the danger.
(E) 	 A person who has no fear of the situations that
everyone else would fear cannot be said to be
courageous in any situation.

S T O P

IF YOU FINISH BEFORE TIME IS CALLED, YOU MAY CHECK YOUR WORK ON THIS SECTION ONLY.
DO NOT WORK ON ANY OTHER SECTION IN THE TEST.

2

3	

3	

3	

3	

SECTION IV
Time—35 minutes
25 Questions
Directions:    Each group of questions in this section is based on a set of conditions. In answering some of the questions, it may be
useful to draw a rough diagram. Choose the response that most accurately and completely answers each question and blacken the
corresponding space on your answer sheet.
Questions 1-5
A dance is being choreographed for six dancers: three
men­—Felipe, Grant, and Hassan—and three women—
Jaclyn, Keiko, and Lorena. At no time during the dance will
anyone other than the dancers be on stage. Who is on stage
and who is off stage at any particular time in the dance is
determined by the following constraints:
If Jaclyn is on stage, Lorena is off stage.
If Lorena is off stage, Jaclyn is on stage.
If Felipe is offstage, Jaclyn is also offstage.
If any of the women are on stage, Grant is also on stage.
1.	 Which one of the following is a list of all of the dancers
who could be on stage at a particular time?
(A) 	
(B) 	
(C) 	
(D) 	
(E) 	

Grant
Keiko, Lorena
Grant, Hassan, Lorena
Grant, Hassan, Jaclyn
Felipe, Grant, Jaclyn, Lorena

2.	 Which one of the following CANNOT be true at any
time during the dance?
(A) 	
(B) 	
(C) 	
(D) 	
(E) 	

Felipe and Grant are the only men on stage.
Grant and Hassan are the only men on stage.
Jaclyn is the only woman on stage.
Keiko is the only woman on stage.
Jaclyn and Keiko are the only women on stage.

3.	 Which one of the following is a complete and accurate
list of the dancers anyone of whom could be off stage
when Jaclyn is on stage?
	
(A) 	 Lorena
(B) 	 Felipe, Lorena
(C) 	 Hassan, Lorena
(D) 	 Hassan, Keiko
(E) 	 Hassan, Keiko, Lorena
4.	 If there are more women than men on stage, then
exactly how many dancers must be on stage?
	
(A) 	 five
(B) 	 four
(C) 	 three
(D) 	 two
(E) 	 one
5.	 What is the minimum number of dancers that must be
on stage at any given time?
(A)	
(B)	
(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

zero
one
two
three
four

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

	3	

3	

3	
Questions 6-12
A critic has prepared a review of exactly six music CDs—­
Headstrong, In Flight, Nice, Quasi, Reunion, and Sounds
Good. Each CD received a rating of either one, two, three,
or four stars, with each CD receiving exactly one rating.
Although the ratings were meant to be kept secret until the
review was published, the following facts have been leaked
to the public:
For each of the ratings, at least one but no more than
two of the CDs received that rating.
Headstrong received exactly one more star than Nice
did.
Either Headstrong or Reunion received the same
number of stars as In Flight did.
At most one CD received more stars than Quasi did.
6.	 Which one of the following could be an accurate
matching of ratings to the CDs that received those
ratings?
	
(A) 	 one star: In Flight, Reunion; two stars: Nice;
three stars: Headstrong; four stars: Quasi,
Sounds Good
(B) 	 one star: In Flight, Reunion; two stars: Quasi,
Sounds Good; three stars: Nice; four stars:
Headstrong
(C) 	 one star: Nice; two stars: Headstrong; three
stars: In Flight, Sounds Good; four stars: Quasi,
Reunion
(D) 	 one star: Nice, Sounds Good; two stars: In
Flight, Reunion; three stars: Quasi; four stars:
Headstrong
(E) 	 one star: Sounds Good; two stars: Reunion; three
stars: Nice, Quasi; four stars: Headstrong, In
Flight
7.	 If Headstrong is the only CD that received a rating of
two stars, then which one of the following must be true?
(A)	
(B)	
(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

In Flight received a rating of three stars.
Nice received a rating of three stars.
Quasi received a rating of three stars.
Reunion received a rating of one star.
Sounds Good received a rating of one star.

3	

3	
8.	 If Reunion received the same rating as Sounds Good,
then which one of the following must be true?
	
(A) 	 Headstrong received a rating of two stars.
(B) 	 In Flight received a rating of three stars.
(C) 	 Nice received a rating of two stars.
(D) 	 Quasi received a rating of four stars.
(E) 	 Sounds Good received a rating of one star.
9.	 If Nice and Reunion each received a rating of one star,
then which one of the following could be true?
	
(A) 	 Headstrong received a rating of three stars.
(B) 	 Headstrong received a rating of four stars.
(C) 	 In Flight received a rating of three stars.
(D) 	 Sounds Good received a rating of two stars.
(E) 	 Sounds Good received a rating of three stars.
10.	 Which one of the following CANNOT be true?
(A) 	 Quasi is the only CD that received a rating of
three stars.
(B) 	 Quasi is the only CD that received a rating of
four stars.
(C) 	 Reunion is the only CD that received a rating of
one star.
(D) 	 Reunion is the only CD that received a rating of
two stars.
(E) 	 Reunion is the only CD that received a rating of
three stars.
11.	 If Reunion is the only CD that received a rating of one
star, then which one of the following could be true?
	
(A) 	 Headstrong received a rating of four stars.
(B) 	 In Flight received a rating of two stars.
(C) 	 Nice received a rating of three stars.
(D) 	 Quasi received a rating of three stars.
(E) 	 Sounds Good received a rating of two stars.
12.	 Which one of the following CANNOT have received a
rating of four stars?
	
(A) 	 Headstrong
(B) 	 In Flight
(C) 	 Quasi
(D) 	 Reunion
(E) 	 Sounds Good

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

	 	

3	

3	
Questions 13-17
A cake has exactly six layers—lemon, marzipan, orange,
raspberry, strawberry, and vanilla. There is exactly one
bottom layer (the first layer), and each succeeding layer
(from second through sixth) completely covers the layer
beneath it. The following conditions must apply:
The raspberry layer is neither immediately above nor
immediately below the strawberry layer.
The marzipan layer is immediately above the lemon
layer.
The orange layer is above the marzipan layer but below
the strawberry layer.
13.	 Which one of the following could be an accurate list of
the layers of the cake, from bottom to top?
	
(A) 	 lemon, marzipan, orange, strawberry, vanilla,
raspberry
(B) 	 lemon, marzipan, orange, strawberry, raspberry,
vanilla
(C) 	 marzipan, lemon, raspberry, vanilla, orange,
strawberry
(D) 	 raspberry, lemon, marzipan, vanilla, strawberry,
orange
(E) 	 raspberry, orange, lemon, marzipan, strawberry,
vanilla
14.	 If the strawberry layer is not immediately above the
orange layer, then which one of the following could be
true?
	
(A) 	 The raspberry layer is immediately above the
vanilla layer.
(B) 	 The raspberry layer is immediately above the
orange layer.
(C) 	 The raspberry layer is immediately below the
marzipan layer.
(D) 	 The raspberry layer is the second layer.
(E) 	 The raspberry layer is the top layer.

3	

3	
15.	 If the strawberry layer is not the top layer, then which
one of the following is a complete and accurate list of
the layers that could be the vanilla layer?
(A) 	 the first, the second, the third, the fourth, the
fifth, the sixth
(B) 	 the second, the third, the fourth, the fifth, the
sixth
(C) 	 the third, the fourth, the fifth, the sixth
(D) 	 the fourth, the fifth, the sixth
(E) 	 the fifth, the sixth
16.	 If the lemon layer is third, then which one of the
following could be true?
	
(A) 	 The vanilla layer is fifth.
(B) 	 The vanilla layer is immediately above the
raspberry layer.
(C) 	 The orange layer is not immediately above the
marzipan layer.
(D) 	 The raspberry layer is above the marzipan layer.
(E) 	 The strawberry layer is not the top layer.
17.	 Which one of the following could be an accurate list of
the two lowest layers of the cake, listed in order from
the bottom up?
(A)	
(B)	
(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

lemon, raspberry
vanilla, raspberry
marzipan, raspberry
raspberry, marzipan
raspberry, strawberry

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

	3	

3	

3	

3	

Questions 18-23
A panel reviews six contract bids—H, J, K, R, S, and T.
No two bids have the same cost. Exactly one of the bids is
accepted. The following conditions must hold:
The accepted bid is either K or R and is either the
second or the third lowest in cost.
H is lower in cost than each of J and K.
If J is the fourth lowest in cost, then J is lower in cost
than each of S and T.
If J is not the fourth lowest in cost, then J is higher in
cost than each of S and T.
Either R or S is the fifth lowest in cost.
18.	 Which one of the following could be an accurate list of
the bids in order from lowest to highest in cost?
	
(A) 	 T, K, H, S, J, R
(B) 	 H, T, K, S, R, J
(C) 	 H, S, T, K, R, J
(D) 	 H, K, S, J, R, T
(E) 	 H, J, K, R, S, T
19.	 Which one of the following bids CANNOT be the
fourth lowest in cost?
(A) 	
(B) 	
(C) 	
(D) 	
(E) 	

H
J
K
R
T

3	
20.	 Which one of the following bids CANNOT be the
second lowest in cost?
(A) 	
(B) 	
(C) 	
(D) 	
(E) 	

H
J
K
R
T

21.	 If R is the accepted bid, then which one of the following
must be true?
	
(A) 	 T is the lowest in cost.
(B) 	 K is the second lowest in cost.
(C) 	 R is the third lowest in cost.
(D) 	 S is the fifth lowest in cost.
(E) 	 J is the highest in cost.
22.	 Which one of the following must be true?
	
(A) 	 H is lower in cost than S.
(B) 	 H is lower in cost than T.
(C) 	 K is lower in cost than J.
(D) 	 S is lower in cost than J.
(E) 	 S is lower in cost than K.
23.	 If R is the lowest in cost, then which one of the
following could be false?
	
(A) 	 J is the highest in cost.
(B) 	 S is the fifth lowest in cost.
(C) 	 K is the third lowest in cost.
(D) 	 H is the second lowest in cost.
(E) 	 K is the accepted bid.  

S T O P
IF YOU FINISH BEFORE TIME IS CALLED, YOU MAY CHECK YOUR WORK ON THIS SECTION ONLY.
DO NOT WORK ON ANY OTHER SECTION IN THE TEST.

	 	

4	

4	

4	

4	

4	

SECTION V
Time—35 minutes
25 Questions
Directions:    The questions in this section are based on the reasoning contained in brief statements or passages. For some questions,
more than one of the choices could conceivably answer the question. However, you are to choose the best answer; that is, the response
that most accurately and completely answers the question. You should not make assumptions that are by commonsense standards
implausible, superfluous, or incompatible with the passage. After you have chosen the best answer, blacken the corresponding space
on your answer sheet.
1. 	 Editorialist: Advertisers devote millions of dollars to
the attempt to instill attitudes and desires that
lead people to purchase particular products, and
advertisers’ techniques have been adopted by
political strategists in democratic countries, who
are paid to manipulate public opinion in every
political campaign. Thus, the results of elections
in democratic countries cannot be viewed as
representing the unadulterated preferences of the
people.
	

2. 	 Kris: Years ago, the chemical industry claimed that
technological progress cannot occur without
pollution. Today, in the name of technological
progress, the cellular phone industry manufactures
and promotes a product that causes environmental
pollution in the form of ringing phones and loud
conversations in public places. Clearly, the cellular
industry must be regulated, just as the chemical
industry is now regulated.
	

Terry: That’s absurd. Chemical pollution can cause
physical harm, but the worst harm that cellular
phones can cause is annoyance.

	

Terry responds to Kris’s argument by doing which one
of the following?

Which one of the following, if true, most strengthens
the editorialist’s argument?
(A)	
(B)	
(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

Public opinion can be manipulated more easily
by officials of nondemocratic governments than
by those of democratic governments.
Advertisers’ techniques are often apparent to the
people to whom the advertisements are directed.
Many democratic countries have laws limiting
the amount that may be spent on political
advertisements in any given election.
People who neither watch television nor read any
print media are more likely to vote than people
who do one or both of these activities.
Unlike advertisements for consumer products,
most of which only reinforce existing beliefs,
political advertisements often change voters’
beliefs.

(A) 	 questioning the reliability of the source of crucial
information in Kris’s argument
(B) 	 attacking the accuracy of the evidence about the
chemical industry that Kris puts forward
(C) 	 arguing that an alleged cause of a problem is
actually an effect of that problem
(D) 	 questioning the strength of the analogy on which
Kris’s argument is based
(E) 	 rejecting Kris’s interpretation of the term
“technological progress”

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

4

4	

4	

4	

3.	 Researcher: Any country can determine which type
of public school system will work best for it by
investigating the public school systems of other
countries. Nationwide tests could be given in
each country and other countries could adopt the
system of the country that has the best scores on
these tests.
	

Which one of the following is an assumption required
by the researcher’s argument?
(A) 	 A type of school system that works well in one
country will work well in any other country.
(B) 	 A number of children in each country in the
research sample are educated in private schools.
(C) 	 If two countries performed differently on these
nationwide tests, further testing could determine
what features of the school systems account for
the differences.
(D) 	 Most countries in the research sample already
administer nationwide tests to their public
school students.
(E) 	 The nationwide testing in the research sample
will target as closely as possible grade levels
that are comparable in the different countries in
the research sample.

4.	 Ray: Cynthia claims that her car’s trunk popped
open because the car hit a pothole. Yet, she also
acknowledged that the trunk in that car had
popped open on several other occasions, and that
on none of those other occasions had the car hit a
pothole. Therefore, Cynthia mistakenly attributed
the trunk’s popping open to the car’s having hit a
pothole.
	

The reasoning in Ray’s argument is most vulnerable to
criticism in that the argument
(A) 	 fails to consider the possibility that the trunks
of other cars may pop open when those cars hit
potholes
(B) 	 fails to consider the possibility that potholes can
have negative effects on a car’s engine
(C) 	 presumes, without providing justification, that if
one event causes another, it cannot also cause a
third event
(D) 	 fails to consider the possibility that one type of
event can be caused in many different ways
(E) 	 presumes the truth of the claim that it is trying to
establish

4	

4	

5.	 Journalists agree universally that lying is absolutely
taboo. Yet, while many reporters claim that spoken
words ought to be quoted verbatim, many others
believe that tightening a quote from a person who is
interviewed is legitimate on grounds that the speaker’s
remarks would have been more concise if the speaker
had written them instead. Also, many reporters believe
that, to expose wrongdoing, failing to identify oneself
as a reporter is permissible, while others condemn such
behavior as a type of lying.
	

Which one of the following is most supported by the
information above?
(A) 	 Reporters make little effort to behave ethically.
(B) 	 There is no correct answer to the question of
whether lying in a given situation is right or
wrong.
(C) 	 Omission of the truth is the same thing as lying.
(D) 	 Since lying is permissible in some situations,
reporters are mistaken to think that it is
absolutely taboo.
(E) 	 Reporters disagree on what sort of behavior
qualifies as lying.

6.	 Wood-frame houses withstand earthquakes far better
than masonry houses do, because wooden frames have
some flexibility; their walls can better handle lateral
forces. In a recent earthquake, however, a wood-frame
house was destroyed, while the masonry house next
door was undamaged.
	

Which one of the following, if true, most helps to
explain the results of the earthquake described above?
(A) 	 In earthquake-prone areas, there are many more
wood-frame houses than masonry houses.
(B) 	 In earthquake-prone areas, there are many more
masonry houses than wood-frame houses.
(C) 	 The walls of the wood-frame house had once
been damaged in a flood.
(D) 	 The masonry house was far more expensive than
the wood-frame house.
(E) 	 No structure is completely impervious to
the destructive lateral forces exerted by
earthquakes.

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

4

4	

4	

4	

7.	 In an experiment, biologists repeatedly shone a
bright light into a tank containing a sea snail and
simultaneously shook the tank. The snail invariably
responded by tensing its muscular “foot,” a typical
reaction in sea snails to ocean turbulence. After several
repetitions of this procedure, the snail tensed its “foot”
whenever the biologists shone the light into its tank,
even when the tank was not simultaneously shaken.
Therefore, the snail must have learned to associate the
shining of the bright light with the shaking of the tank.
	

Which one of the following is an assumption required
by the argument?
(A) 	 All sea snails react to ocean turbulence in the
same way as the sea snail in the experiment did.
(B) 	 Sea snails are not ordinarily exposed to bright
lights such as the one used in the biologists’
experiment.
(C) 	 The sea snail used in the experiment did not
differ significantly from other members of its
species in its reaction to external stimuli.
(D) 	 The appearance of a bright light alone would
ordinarily not result in the sea snail’s tensing its
“foot.”
(E) 	 Tensing of the muscular “foot” in sea snails is
an instinctual rather than a learned response to
ocean turbulence.

8.	 The university’s purchasing department is highly
efficient overall. We must conclude that each of its
twelve staff members is highly efficient.
	

Which one of the following arguments exhibits
flawed reasoning most similar to that exhibited by the
argument above?
(A) 	 The employees at this fast-food restaurant are the
youngest and most inexperienced of any fastfood workers in the city. Given this, it seems
obvious that customers will have to wait longer
for their food at this restaurant than at others.
(B) 	 The outside audit of our public relations
department has exposed serious deficiencies
in the competence of each member of that
department. We must conclude that the
department is inadequate for our needs.
(C) 	 This supercomputer is the most sophisticated—
and the most expensive—ever built. It must
be that each of its components is the most
sophisticated and expensive available.
(D) 	 Literature critics have lavished praise on every
chapter of this book. In light of their reviews,
one must conclude that the book is excellent.
(E) 	 Passing a driving test is a condition of
employment at the city’s transportation
department. It follows that each of the
department’s employees has passed the test.

4	

4	

9.	 The Jacksons regularly receive wrong-number calls
for Sara, whose phone number was misprinted in a
directory. Sara contacted the Jacksons, informing them
of the misprint and her correct number. The Jacksons
did not lead Sara to believe that they would pass along
the correct number, but it would be helpful to Sara
and of no difficulty for them to do so. Thus, although
it would not be wrong for the Jacksons to tell callers
trying to reach Sara merely that they have dialed the
wrong number, it would be laudable if the Jacksons
passed along Sara’s correct number.
	

Which one of the following principles, if valid, most
helps to justify the reasoning in the argument?
(A) 	 It is always laudable to do something helpful to
someone, but not doing so would be wrong only
if one has led that person to believe one would
do it.
(B) 	 Being helpful to someone is laudable whenever it
is not wrong to do so.
(C) 	 If one can do something that would be helpful to
someone else and it would be easy to do, then it
is laudable and not wrong to do so.
(D) 	 Doing something for someone is laudable only if
it is difficult for one to do so and it is wrong for
one not to do so.
(E) 	 The only actions that are laudable are those that
it would not be wrong to refrain from doing,
whether or not it is difficult to do so.

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

4

4	

4	

4	

10.	 Albert: The government has proposed new automobile
emissions regulations designed to decrease the
amount of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons
(PAHs) released into the atmosphere by
automobile exhaust. I don’t see the need for
such regulations; although PAHs are suspected
of causing cancer, a causal link has never been
proven.
	

	

Erin: Scientists also blame PAHs for 10,000 premature
deaths in this country each year from lung and
heart disease. So the proposed regulations would
save thousands of lives.

4	

4	

11.	 Australia has considerably fewer species of carnivorous
mammals than any other continent does but about as
many carnivorous reptile species as other continents
do. This is probably a consequence of the unusual
sparseness of Australia’s ecosystems. To survive,
carnivorous mammals must eat much more than
carnivorous reptiles need to; thus carnivorous mammals
are at a disadvantage in ecosystems in which there is
relatively little food.
	

Which one of the following most accurately expresses
the main conclusion of the argument?
(A)	

Which one of the following, if true, is the logically
strongest counter that Albert can make to Erin’s
argument?
(B)	

(A) 	 Most automobile manufacturers are strongly
opposed to additional automobile emissions
regulations.
(B) 	 It is not known whether PAHs are a causal factor
in any diseases other than heart and lung disease
and cancer.
(C) 	 Even if no new automobile emissions regulations
are enacted, the amount of PAHs released into
the atmosphere will decrease if automobile
usage declines.
(D) 	 Most of the PAHs released into the atmosphere
are the result of wear and tear on automobile
tires.
(E) 	 PAHs are one of several components of
automobile exhaust that scientists suspect of
causing cancer.

(C)	

(D)	

(E)	

Australia has considerably fewer species of
carnivorous mammals than any other continent
does but about as many carnivorous reptile
species as other continents do.
In ecosystems in which there is relatively
little food carnivorous mammals are at a
disadvantage relative to carnivorous reptiles.
The unusual sparseness of Australia’s
ecosystems is probably the reason Australia
has considerably fewer carnivorous mammal
species than other continents do but about as
many carnivorous reptile species.
The reason that carnivorous mammals are at
a disadvantage in ecosystems in which there
is relatively little food is that they must eat
much more in order to survive than carnivorous
reptiles need to.
Because Australia’s ecosystems are unusually
sparse, carnivorous mammals there are at a
disadvantage relative to carnivorous reptiles.

12. 	Linguist: The Sapir-Whorf hypothesis states that
a society’s world view is influenced by the
language or languages its members speak. But
this hypothesis does not have the verifiability of
hypotheses of physical science, since it is not clear
that the hypothesis could be tested.
	

If the linguist’s statements are accurate, which one of
the following is most supported by them?
(A) 	 The Sapir-Whorf hypothesis is probably false.
(B) 	 Only the hypotheses of physical science are
verifiable.
(C) 	 Only verifiable hypotheses should be seriously
considered.
(D) 	 We do not know whether the Sapir-Whorf
hypothesis is true or false.
(E) 	 Only the hypotheses of physical science should
be taken seriously.

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

4

4	

4	

4	

13.	 The highest mountain ranges are formed by geological
forces that raise the earth’s crust: two continent-bearing
tectonic plates of comparable density collide and
crumple upward, causing a thickening of the crust. The
erosive forces of wind and precipitation inexorably
wear these mountains down. Yet the highest mountain
ranges tend to be found in places where these erosive
forces are most prevalent.
	

Which one of the following, if true, most helps to
reconcile the apparent conflict described above?
(A) 	 Patterns of extreme wind and precipitation often
result from the dramatic differences in elevation
commonly found in the highest mountain
ranges.
(B) 	 The highest mountain ranges have less erosionreducing vegetation near their peaks than do
other mountain ranges.
(C) 	 Some lower mountain ranges are formed by a
different collision process, whereby one tectonic
plate simply slides beneath another of lesser
density.
(D) 	 The amount of precipitation that a given region
of the earth receives may vary considerably over
the lifetime of an average mountain range.
(E) 	 The thickening of the earth’s crust associated
with the formation of the highest mountain
ranges tends to cause the thickened portion of
the crust to sink over time.

14.	 Expert: A group of researchers claims to have shown
that for an antenna to work equally well at all
frequencies, it must be symmetrical in shape and
have what is known as a fractal structure. Yet
the new antenna developed by these researchers,
which satisfies both of these criteria, in fact works
better at frequencies below 250 megahertz than
at frequencies above 250 megahertz. Hence, their
claim is incorrect.
	

The reasoning in the expert’s argument is flawed
because the argument
(A) 	 fails to provide a definition of the technical term
“fractal”
(B) 	 contradicts itself by denying in its conclusion the
claim of scientific authorities that it relies on in
its premises
(C) 	 concludes that a claim is false merely on the
grounds that there is insufficient evidence that it
is true
(D) 	 interprets an assertion that certain conditions are
necessary as asserting that those conditions are
sufficient
(E) 	 takes for granted that there are only two
possible alternatives, either below or above 250
megahertz

4	

4	

15. 	Singletary: We of Citizens for Cycling Freedom object
to the city’s new ordinance requiring bicyclists to
wear helmets. If the city wanted to become a safer
place for cyclists, it would not require helmets.
Instead, it would construct more bicycle lanes and
educate drivers about bicycle safety. Thus, passage
of the ordinance reveals that the city is more
concerned with the appearance of safety than with
bicyclists’ actual safety.
	

Which one of the following most accurately describes
the role played in Singletary’s argument by the
statement that mentions driver education?
(A) 	 It is cited as evidence for the claim that the city
misunderstands the steps necessary for ensuring
bicyclists’ safety.
(B) 	 It is used as partial support for a claim about the
motivation of the city.
(C) 	 It is offered as evidence of the total
ineffectiveness of the helmet ordinance.
(D) 	 It is offered as an example of further measures
the city will take to ensure bicyclists’ safety.
(E) 	 It is presented as an illustration of the city’s
overriding interest in its public image.

16. 	Max: Although doing so would be very costly, humans
already possess the technology to build colonies
on the Moon. As the human population increases
and the amount of unoccupied space available for
constructing housing on Earth diminishes, there
will be a growing economic incentive to construct
such colonies to house some of the population.
Thus, such colonies will almost certainly be built
and severe overcrowding on Earth relieved.
	

Max’s argument is most vulnerable to criticism on
which one of the following grounds?
(A) 	 It takes for granted that the economic incentive
to construct colonies on the Moon will grow
sufficiently to cause such a costly project to be
undertaken.
(B) 	 It takes for granted that the only way of
relieving severe overcrowding on Earth is the
construction of colonies on the Moon.
(C) 	 It overlooks the possibility that colonies will be
built on the Moon regardless of any economic
incentive to construct such colonies to house
some of the population.
(D) 	 It overlooks the possibility that colonies on
the Moon might themselves quickly become
overcrowded.
(E) 	 It takes for granted that none of the human
population would prefer to live on the Moon
unless Earth were seriously overcrowded.

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

4

4	

4	

4	

17. 	Ethicist: An action is wrong if it violates a rule of the
society in which the action is performed and that
rule promotes the general welfare of people in the
society. An action is right if it is required by a rule
of the society in which the action is performed
and the rule promotes the general welfare of the
people in that society.
	

Which one of the following judgments most closely
conforms to the principle cited by the ethicist?
(A) 	 Amelia’s society has a rule against lying.
However, she lies anyway in order to protect an
innocent person from being harmed. While the
rule against lying promotes the general welfare
of people in the society, Amelia’s lie is not
wrong because she is preventing harm.
(B) 	 Jordan lives in a society that requires its
members to eat certain ceremonial foods during
festivals. Jordan disobeys this rule. Because the
rule is not detrimental to the general welfare of
people in her society, Jordan’s disobedience is
wrong.
(C) 	 Elgin obeys a certain rule of his society.
Because Elgin knows that this particular rule is
detrimental to the general welfare of the people
in his society, his obedience is wrong.
(D) 	 Dahlia always has a cup of coffee before getting
dressed in the morning. Dahlia’s action is right
because it does not violate any rule of the
society in which she lives.
(E) 	 Edward’s society requires children to take care
of their aged parents. Edward’s taking care of
his aged parents is the right thing for him to do
because the rule requiring this action promotes
the general welfare of people in the society.

18. 	Teresa: If their goal is to maximize profits, film studios
should concentrate on producing big-budget
films rather than small-budget ones. For, unlike
big-budget films, small-budget films never attract
mass audiences. While small-budget films are
less expensive to produce and, hence, involve
less risk of un profitability than big-budget films,
low production costs do not guarantee the highest
possible profits.
	

Which one of the following is an assumption required
by Teresa’s argument?
(A) 	 Each big-budget film is guaranteed to attract a
mass audience.
(B) 	 A film studio cannot make both big-budget films
and small-budget films.
(C) 	 A film studio will not maximize its profits unless
at least some of its films attract mass audiences.
(D) 	 It is impossible to produce a big-budget film in a
financially efficient manner.
(E) 	 A film studio’s primary goal should be to
maximize profits.

4	

4	

19.	 Cyclists in the Tour de France are extremely physically
fit: all of the winners of this race have had abnormal
physiological constitutions. Typical of the abnormal
physiology of these athletes are exceptional lung
capacity and exceptionally powerful hearts. Tests
conducted on last year’s winner did not reveal an
exceptionally powerful heart. That cyclist must,
therefore, have exceptional lung capacity.
	

The reasoning in the argument is most vulnerable to
criticism on the grounds that it overlooks the possibility
that
(A) 	 having exceptional lung capacity and an
exceptionally powerful heart is an advantage in
cycling
(B) 	 some winners of the Tour de France have neither
exceptional lung capacity nor exceptionally
powerful hearts
(C) 	 cyclists with normal lung capacity rarely have
exceptionally powerful hearts
(D) 	 the exceptional lung capacity and exceptionally
powerful hearts of Tour de France winners are
due to training
(E) 	 the notions of exceptional lung capacity and
exceptional heart function are relative to the
physiology of most cyclists

20. 	TV meteorologist: Our station’s weather forecasts are
more useful and reliable than those of the most
popular news station in the area. After all, the
most important question for viewers in this area is
whether it will rain, and on most of the occasions
when we have forecast rain for the next day, we
have been right. The same cannot be said for
either of our competitors.
	

Which one of the following, if true, most strengthens
the meteorologist’s argument?
(A) 	 The meteorologist’s station forecast rain more
often than did the most popular news station in
the area.
(B) 	 The less popular of the competing stations does
not employ any full-time meteorologists.
(C) 	 The most popular news station in the area is
popular because of its investigative news
reports.
(D) 	 The meteorologist’s station has a policy of not
making weather forecasts more than three days
in advance.
(E) 	 On most of the occasions when the
meteorologist’s station forecast that it would not
rain, at least one of its competitors also forecast
that it would not rain.

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

4

4	

4	

4	

21.	 In an experiment, volunteers witnessed a simulated
crime. After they witnessed the simulation the
volunteers were first questioned by a lawyer whose
goal was to get them to testify inaccurately about the
event. They were then cross-examined by another
lawyer whose goal was to cause them to correct the
inaccuracies in their testimony. The witnesses who
gave testimony containing fewer inaccurate details than
most of the other witnesses during the first lawyer’s
questioning also gave testimony containing a greater
number of inaccurate details than most of the other
witnesses during cross-examination.
	

Which one of the following, if true, most helps to
resolve the apparent conflict in the results concerning
the witnesses who gave testimony containing fewer
inaccurate details during the first lawyer’s questioning?
(A) 	 These witnesses were more observant about
details than were most of the other witnesses.
(B) 	 These witnesses had better memories than did
most of the other witnesses.
(C) 	 These witnesses were less inclined than most
of the other witnesses to be influenced in their
testimony by the nature of the questioning.
(D) 	 These witnesses were unclear about the details
at first but then began to remember more
accurately as they answered questions.
(E) 	 These witnesses tended to give testimony
containing more details than most of the other
witnesses.

22.	 The short-term and long-term interests of a business
often conflict; when they do, the morally preferable
act is usually the one that serves the long-term interest.
Because of this, businesses often have compelling
reasons to execute the morally preferable act.
	

Which one of the following, if assumed, enables the
conclusion of the argument to be properly drawn?
(A) 	 A business’s moral interests do not always
provide compelling reasons for executing an
act.
(B) 	 A business’s long-term interests often provide
compelling reasons for executing an act.
(C) 	 The morally preferable act for a business to
execute and the long-term interests of the
business seldom conflict.
(D) 	 The morally preferable act for a business to
execute and the short-term interests of the
business usually conflict.
(E) 	 When a business’s short-term and long-term
interests conflict, morality alone is rarely the
overriding consideration.

4	

4	

23.	 Politician: The current crisis in mathematics education
must be overcome if we are to remain competitive
in the global economy. Alleviating this crisis
requires the employment of successful teaching
methods. No method of teaching a subject can
succeed that does not get students to spend
a significant amount of time outside of class
studying that subject.
	

Which one of the following statements follows logically
from the statements above?
(A) 	 If students spend a significant amount of time
outside of class studying mathematics, the
current crisis in mathematics education will be
overcome.
(B) 	 The current crisis in mathematics education
will not be overcome unless students spend
a significant amount of time outside of class
studying mathematics.
(C) 	 Few subjects are as important as mathematics to
the effort to remain competitive in the global
economy.
(D) 	 Only if we succeed in remaining competitive
in the global economy will students spend a
significant amount of time outside of class
studying mathematics.
(E) 	 Students’ spending a significant amount of time
outside of class studying mathematics would
help us to remain competitive in the global
economy.

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

4

4	

4	

4	

24.	 Downtown Petropolis boasted over 100 large buildings
5 years ago. Since then, 60 of those buildings have been
demolished. Since the number of large buildings in a
downtown is an indicator of the economic health of that
downtown, it is clear that downtown Petropolis is in a
serious state of economic decline.
	

Which one of the following is an assumption required
by the argument?
(A) 	 The demolitions that have taken place during the
past 5 years have been evenly spread over that
period.
(B) 	 There have never been significantly more than
100 large buildings in downtown Petropolis.
(C) 	 Most of the buildings demolished during the
past 5 years were tom down because they were
structurally unsound.
(D) 	 The large buildings demolished over the past 5
years have been replaced with small buildings
built on the same sites.
(E) 	 Significantly fewer than 60 new large buildings
have been built in downtown Petropolis during
the past 5 years.

4	

4	

25.	 To get the free dessert, one must order an entree and a
salad. But anyone who orders either an entree or a salad
can receive a free soft drink. Thus, anyone who is not
eligible for a free soft drink is not eligible for a free
dessert.
	

The reasoning in the argument above is most similar to
the reasoning in which one of the following arguments?
(A) 	 To get an executive position at Teltech, one needs
a university diploma and sales experience.
But anyone who has worked at Teltech for
more than six months who does not have sales
experience has a university diploma. Thus,
one cannot get an executive position at Teltech
unless one has worked there for six months.
(B) 	 To be elected class president, one must be well
liked and well known. Anyone who is well liked
or well known has something better to do than
run for class president. Therefore, no one who
has something better to do will be elected class
president.
(C) 	 To grow good azaleas, one needs soil that is both
rich in humus and low in acidity. Anyone who
has soil that is rich in humus or low in acidity
can grow blueberries. So, anyone who cannot
grow blueberries cannot grow good azaleas.
(D) 	 To drive to Weller, one must take the highway
or take Old Mill Road. Anyone who drives to
Weller on the highway will miss the beautiful
scenery. Thus, one cannot see the beautiful
scenery without taking Old Mill Road to Weller.
(E) 	 To get a discount on ice cream, one must buy
frozen raspberries and ice cream together.
Anyone who buys ice cream or raspberries will
get a coupon for a later purchase. So, anyone
who does not get the discount on ice cream will
not get a coupon for a later purchase.  

S T O P
IF YOU FINISH BEFORE TIME IS CALLED, YOU MAY CHECK YOUR WORK ON THIS SECTION ONLY.
DO NOT WORK ON ANY OTHER SECTION IN THE TEST.

4

Computing Your Score
Note: Online scoring will provide a more complete picture of your performance.

Directions:

Conversion Chart:
For Converting Raw Score to the 120-180 LSAT
Scaled Score
LSAT Form 9LSN79

1. 	 Use the Scoring Worksheet below to compute your
	 raw score.
	

2. 	 Use the Score Conversion Chart to convert your
	 raw score into the 120-180 scale.
Scoring Worksheet
1. 	 Enter the number of questions you answered
	 correctly in each section.
Number
Correct
	
	
	
	

SECTION I.	.	 .	 .	 .
SECTION II	.	 .	 .	 .	
SECTION III.	.	 .	 .
SECTION IV.	 .	 .	 .

2. 	 Enter the sum here:	
	 	
This is your Raw Score.

	Reported		
Raw Score
Score	
Lowest		
180
179
178
177
176
175
174
173
172
171
170
169
168
167
166
165
164
163
162
161
160
159
158
157
156
155
154
153
152
151
150
149
148
147
146
145
144
143
142
141
140
139
138
137
136
135
134
133
132
131
130
129
128
127
126
125
124
123
122
121
120

99
98
__*
97
96
95
__*
94
93
92
91
90
89
88
87
85
84
83
81
80
78
76
75
73
71
69
67
66
64
62
60
58
56
54
52
50
49
47
45
43
42
40
38
37
35
33
32
30
29
28
26
25
24
23
21
20
19
18
16
__*
0

Highest
101
98
__*
97
96
95
__*
94
93
92
91
90
89
88
87
86
84
83
82
80
79
77
75
74
72
70
68
66
65
63
61
59
57
55
53
51
49
48
46
44
42
41
39
37
36
34
32
31
29
28
27
25
24
23
22
20
19
18
17
__*
15

Answer Key

	
SECTION I
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	

1.	
2.	
3. 	
4. 	
5. 	
6. 	
7. 	

A	
C	
D	
D	
E	
B	
E	

8. 	
9. 	
10. 	
11. 	
12. 	
13. 	
14. 	

	
	
1.	
2.	
3. 	
4. 	
5. 	
6. 	
7. 	

	
	
D	
E	
A	
E	
B	
C	
C	

	
8. 	
9. 	
10. 	
11. 	
12. 	
13. 	
14. 	

	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	

	
	
	
1.	
2.	
3. 	
4. 	
5. 	
6. 	
7. 	

	

	

C	
D	
E	
C	
C	
A	
A	

8. 	
9. 	
10. 	
11. 	
12. 	
13. 	
14. 	

	

	

	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	

	
1.	
2.	
3. 	
4. 	
5. 	
6. 	
7. 	

E	
B	
B	
C	
A	
C	
D	

	
	
	
	
	
	
	

15. 	
16. 	
17. 	
18. 	
19. 	
20.	
21. 	

C	
E	
E	
A	
A	
A	
C	

22.	
23.	
24.	
25. 	
26.	
27.	

C	
B	
E	
E	
A	
B	

E	
D	
D	
C	
D	
E	
A	

22.	
23.	
24.	
25. 	
26.	

E	
C	
A	
D	
D	

E	
B	
B	
B	
A	
B	
D	

22.	 C	
23.	 A	
	
	

B	
A	
E	
C	
B	
A	
C	

22.	
23.	
24.	
25. 	

B	
B	
E	
C	

	

	

	 SECTION II	
A	
A	
B	
B	
D	
B	
C	

	
	
	
	
	
	
	

15. 	
16. 	
17. 	
18. 	
19. 	
20.	
21. 	

	SECTION III		
D	
E	
D	
E	
B	
A	
B	

	
	
	
	
	
	
	

15. 	
16. 	
17. 	
18. 	
19. 	
20.	
21. 	

SECTION IV
E	
D	
A	
D	
E	
C	
D	

8. 	
9. 	
10. 	
11. 	
12. 	
13. 	
14. 	

C	
A	
D	
C	
D	
A	
D	

	
	
	
	
	
	
	

15. 	
16. 	
17. 	
18. 	
19. 	
20.	
21. 	

	

