December 1995
Full-Length LSAT

1	

	 	 	1

1	

      

SECTION I
Time—35 minutes
24 Questions
Directions:    Each group of questions in this section is based on a set of conditions. In answering some of the questions, it may be
useful to draw a rough diagram. Choose the response that most accurately and completely answers each question and blacken the
corresponding space on your answer sheet.
Questions 1-5
On Wednesday a physician will have exactly one
appointment with seven patients—P, Q, R, S, T, U, W—one
patient per appointment. The schedule of appointments,
chronologically numbered 1 through 7, must meet the
following conditions:
	
Q’s appointment is at some time before W’s
	
	 appointment.
	
U’s appointment is at some time before P’s    
	
	 appointment.
	
Either R or T has appointment 3.
	
S’s appointment is either the appointment immediately 	
	 before or the appointment immediately after R’s 	
	 appointment.
1.	 Which one of the following is an acceptable schedule of
appointments in order from 1 to 7?
(A) 	
(B) 	
(C) 	
(D) 	
(E) 	

Q, S, R, P, W, U, T
Q, U, W, S, R, T, P
S, Q, R, T, W, U, P
T, U, R, S, W, P, Q
U, Q, T, P, R, S, W

2. 	 If W has appointment 2 and P has appointment 5, then
which one of the following must be true?
(A) 	
(B) 	
(C) 	
(D) 	
(E) 	

R has appointment 6.
S has appointment 4.
S has appointment 7.
U has appointment 1.
U has appointment 4.

3. 	 If U’s appointment is immediately after T’s
appointment and immediately before R’s appointment,
then which one of the following must be true
(A) 	
	
(B) 	
	
(C) 	
	
(D) 	
	
(E) 	
	

Q’s appointment is at some time before P’s
	 appointment.
S’s appointment is at some time before P’s
	 appointment.
S’s appointment is immediately before Q’s
	 appointment.
W’s appointment is immediately before P’s
	 appointment.
W’s appointment is at some time before S’s
	 appointment.

4. 	 If P’s appointment is immediately before S’s
appointment, then each of the following could be true
EXCEPT:
(A) 	
	
(B) 	
	
(C) 	
	
(D) 	
	
(E) 	
	

R’s appointment is immediately before W’s
	 appointment.
T’s appointment is immediately before Q’s
	 appointment.
U’s appointment is immediately before P’s
	 appointment.
U’s appointment is immediately before Q’s
	 appointment.
W’s appointment is immediately before T’s
	 appointment.

5.	 If T’s appointment is immediately after P’s appointment
and immediately before W’s appointment, then which
one of the following must be true?
	
(A) 	 W’s appointment is at some time before R’s
	
	 appointment.
(B) 	 U’s appointment is at some time before R’s
	
	 appointment.
(C) 	 S’s appointment is at some time before U’s
	
	 appointment.
(D) 	 R’s appointment is at some time before P’s
	
	 appointment.
(E) 	 Q’s appointment is at some time before S’s
	
	 appointment.

	

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

1	

	 	 	1

1	

      
Questions 6-12
Exactly six employees—officers F, G, and H, and
supervisors K, L, and M—must be assigned to exactly three
committees—Policy, Quality, and Sales—with exactly three
employees per committee. Committee assignments must
conform to the following conditions:
	
Each committee must have at least one officer
	
	 assigned to it.
	
Each employee must be assigned to at least one       
	
	 committee.
	
All three officers must be assigned to the Policy  
	
	 Committee.
	
G cannot be assigned to the same committee as L.
	
K must be assigned to the Sales Committee.

9. 	 If F is assigned to exactly three committees, and G is
assigned to exactly two committees, then which one of
the following must be true?
(A) 	
(B) 	
(C) 	
(D) 	
(E) 	

10.	 Which one of the following is a group of three
employees who can be assigned together to the Quality
Committee?
(A) 	
(B) 	
(C) 	
(D) 	
(E) 	

6.	 Which one of the following is a group of three
employees who can be assigned together to the Sales
Committee?
(A) 	
(B) 	
(C) 	
(D) 	
(E) 	

F, G, and H
F, G, and M
G, K, and L
H, K, and L
K, L, and M

7. 	 If H is assigned to exactly one committee, and if no
committee has both F and M assigned to it, then it must
be true that

(A) 	
(B) 	
(C) 	
(D) 	
(E) 	

F is assigned to the Sales Committee.
G is assigned to the Sales Committee.
H is assigned to the Quality Committee.
K is assigned to the Quality Committee.
M is assigned to the Quality Committee.

12.	 Which one of the following CANNOT be true?
(A) 	 F and G are each assigned to exactly one
committee.
(B) 	 F and H are each assigned to exactly one
committee.
(C) 	 G and H are each assigned to exactly one
committee.
(D) 	 F and M are both assigned to the Sales
Committee.
(E) 	 G and K are both assigned to the Quality
Committee.

8.	 Which one of the following CANNOT be true?
F is assigned to exactly one committee.
G is assigned to exactly three committees.
H is assigned to exactly three committees.
K is assigned to exactly one committee.
L is assigned to exactly two committees.

F, G, and H
F, G, and K
G, H, and K
G, K, and L
H, L, and M

11.	 If L is assigned to exactly two committees, which one
of the following must be true?

(A) 	 G and M are both assigned to the Quality
Committee
(B) 	 K and L are both assigned to the Sales
Committee
(C) 	 K is assigned to exactly two committees
(D) 	 L is assigned to exactly two committees
(E) 	 M is assigned to exactly two committees

(A) 	
(B) 	
(C) 	
(D) 	
(E) 	

G is assigned to the Quality Committee.
G is assigned to the Sales Committee.
K is assigned to the Quality Committee.
L is assigned to the Sales Committee.
M is assigned to the Quality Committee.

	

	

	

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

1	

	 	 	1

1	

      
Questions 13-17
On Tuesday Vladimir and Wendy each eat exactly four
separate meals: breakfast, lunch, dinner, and a snack. The
following is all that is known about what they eat during that
day:
	
At no meal does Vladimir eat the same kind of food as 	
	 Wendy.
	
Neither of them eats the same kind of food more than 	
	 once during the day.
	
For breakfast, each eats exactly one of the following: 	
	 hot cakes, poached eggs, or omelet.
	
For lunch, each eats exactly one of the following:     
	
	fish, hot cakes, macaroni, or omelet.
	
For dinner, each eats exactly one of the following:    
	
	fish, hot cakes, macaroni, or omelet.
	
For a snack, each eats exactly one of the following:  
	
	fish or omelet.
	
Wendy eats an omelet for lunch.
13.	 Which one of the following statements must be true?
(A) 	
(B) 	
(C) 	
(D) 	
(E) 	

Vladimir eats fish for lunch.
Vladimir eats fish for dinner.
Vladimir eats fish for his snack.
Wendy eats fish for dinner.
Wendy eats fish for her snack.

15.	 If both Vladimir and Wendy eat macaroni on Tuesday,
then which one of the following statements could be
true?
(A) 	
(B) 	
(C) 	
(D) 	
(E) 	

Vladimir eats fish for lunch.
Vladimir eats hot cakes for lunch.
Vladimir eats macaroni for dinner.
Wendy eats hot cakes for breakfast.
Wendy eats hot cakes for dinner.

16.	 If Wendy does not eat macaroni on Tuesday, then which
one of the following statements could be true?
(A) 	
(B) 	
(C) 	
(D) 	
(E) 	

Vladimir eats poached eggs for breakfast.
Vladimir eats fish for lunch.
Vladimir eats hot cakes for lunch.
Wendy eats hot cakes for breakfast.
Wendy eats fish for dinner.

17.	 If Wendy eats poached eggs for breakfast, then which
one of the following statements cannot be true?
(A) 	
(B) 	
(C) 	
(D) 	
(E) 	

Vladimir eats fish for lunch.
Vladimir eats hot cakes for lunch.
Vladimir eats macaroni for dinner.
Wendy eats hot cakes for dinner.
Wendy eats macaroni for dinner.

14.	 Vladimir must eat which one of the following foods?
(A) 	
(B) 	
(C) 	
(D) 	
(E) 	

fish
hot cakes
macaroni
omelet
poached eggs

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

1	

	 	 	1

1	

      
Questions 18-24

20.	 If Owen and Ruth are assigned to the same team as
each other, which one of the following must be true?

Eight people—Jack, Karen, Laura, Mark, Nick, Owen,
Peggy, and Ruth—will be placed on two four‑person
teams—X and Y—for a relay race that is run in four
successive legs: first, second, third, and fourth. The teams
race concurrently. Each team member runs exactly one of
the legs, one team member per leg, according to the
following conditions:
	
Jack is on the same team as Karen.
	
Karen is not on the same team as Nick.
	
Ruth runs an earlier leg of the race than Peggy
	
	runs, whether or not they are on the same team as   
	
	each other.
	
Mark and Nick are both on team Y.
	
Neither Jack nor Mark runs third.
	
Karen and Laura both run second.
	
Owen runs fourth.
18.	 Which one of the following must be true?
(A) 	 If Jack and Owen are assigned to the same team
as each other, Jack runs first.
(B) 	 If Jack and Peggy are assigned to the same team
as each other, Jack runs fourth.
(C) 	 If Jack and Ruth are assigned to the same team
as each other, Ruth runs third.
(D) 	 If Mark and Owen are assigned to the same team
as each other, Mark runs fourth.
(E) 	 If Mark and Ruth are assigned to the same team
as each other, Ruth runs third.
19.	 If Ruth is assigned to team X, which one of the
following is a complete and accurate list of the legs that
she could run?
(A) 	
(B) 	
(C) 	
(D) 	
(E) 	

first
second
first, second
first, third
second, third

(A) 	
(B) 	
(C)	
(D) 	
(E) 	

Mark runs fourth.
Nick runs first.
Nick runs fourth.
Peggy runs first.
Peggy runs fourth.

21.	 Any of the following can be true EXCEPT:
(A) 	
(B) 	
(C) 	
(D) 	
(E) 	

Jack runs first.
Mark runs fourth.
Nick runs first.
Nick and Peggy both run third.
Owen and Peggy both run fourth.

22.	 If Ruth and Peggy are assigned to the same team as
each other, which one of the following must be true?
(A) 	
(B) 	
(C) 	
(D) 	
(E) 	

Jack runs first.
Mark runs fourth.
Nick runs third.
Peggy runs third.
Ruth runs first.

23.	 Any of the following can be true EXCEPT:
(A) 	
(B) 	
(C) 	
(D) 	
(E) 	

Jack runs fourth.
Nick runs fourth.
Peggy runs fourth.
Ruth runs first.
Ruth runs third.

24.	 If Peggy runs third on the same team to which Jack is
assigned, which one of the following must be true?
(A) 	
	
(B) 	
	
(C) 	
(D) 	
(E) 	

Jack runs the first leg on the team to which he
	 is assigned.
Ruth runs the first leg on the team to which
	 she is assigned.
Owen runs on the same team as Jack.
Owen runs on the same team as Mark.
Ruth runs on the same team as Mark.

S T O P
IF YOU FINISH BEFORE TIME IS CALLED, YOU MAY CHECK YOUR WORK ON THIS SECTION ONLY.
DO NOT WORK ON ANY OTHER SECTION IN THE TEST.

2	

2   	

2	 2	

	

  

SECTION II
Time—35 minutes
25 Questions
Directions:    The questions in this section are based on the reasoning contained in brief statements or passages. For some questions,
more than one of the choices could conceivably answer the question. However, you are to choose the best answer; that is, the response
that most accurately and completely answers the question. You should not make assumptions that are by commonsense standards
implausible, superfluous, or incompatible with the passage. After you have chosen the best answer, blacken the corresponding space
on your answer sheet.
1. 	 The basic ingredients from which cement is made are
	
both cheap and plentiful. Materials as common as
limestone and clay will do. Nevertheless, the price of
cement is influenced by the price of oil, because turning
the basic ingredients into cement in high‑temperature
kilns uses large amounts of energy.
	

Which one of the following can be logically inferred
from the passage?
(A) 	
	
(B) 	
	
(C) 	
	
(D) 	
(E) 	
	

Oil is one of the basic ingredients that make
	 up cement.
Oil is a source of energy for some of the kilns
	 used in the making of cement.
The higher the price of cement rises, the
	 higher the price of clay rises.
Whenever oil prices rise, cement prices drop.
A given amount of cement costs no more than
	 the total cost of its basic ingredients.

2. 	 Many people do not understand themselves, nor do they
try to gain self‑understanding. These people might try
to understand others, but these attempts are sure to fail,
because without self-understanding it is impossible
to understand others. It is clear from this that anyone
who lacks self-understanding will be incapable of
understanding others.
	

The reasoning in the argument is flawed because the
argument
(A) 	
	
	
(B) 	
	
	
(C) 	
	
(D) 	
	
	
(E) 	
	

mistakes something that is necessary to bring
	 about a situation for something that in itself
	 is enough to bring about that situation
fails to take into account the possibility that
	 not everyone wants to gain a thorough
	 understanding of himself or herself
blames people for something for which they
	 cannot legitimately be held responsible
makes use of the inherently vague term
	 “self‑understanding” without defining that
	 term
draws a conclusion that simply restates a
	 claim given in support of that conclusion

Questions 3-4
Wife:    The work of the artist who painted the portrait of my
grandparents 50 years ago has become quite popular
lately, so the portrait has recently become valuable.
But since these sorts of artistic fads fade rapidly, the
practical thing to do would be to sell the portrait while
it is still worth something, and thereby enable our
daughter to attend the college she has chosen.
Husband:    How could you make such a suggestion? That
painting is the only thing you own that belonged to
	
your grandparents. I don’t think it’s a very good
painting, but it has great sentimental value. Besides,
you owe it to our daughter to keep it in the family as a
link to her family’s past.
3. 	 Which one of the following principles, if established,
does most to justify the husband’s reply?
(A) 	 Gifts offered as sentimental tokens of affection 	
should not be accepted if the recipient intends to
sell them later for profit.
(B) 	 A beautiful work of art is more valuable than
the money it could be sold for, whatever the
amount.
(C) 	 It is more important for parents to provide their 	
children with tangible links to the family’s past 	
than it is to enable them to attend the college of 	
their choice.
(D) 	 Children and grandchildren have a duty to
	
	 preserve family heirlooms only if they have
	
	 promised their parents or grandparents that
	
	 they would do so.
(E) 	 Providing one’s children with an education is
	
	 more important than providing them with
	
	 material goods, even if the goods have
	
	 sentimental value.
4. 	 The husband uses which one of the following
argumentative techniques in replying to the wife’s
suggestion?
(A) 	 taking issue with the practicality of her
suggestion
(B) 	 questioning her aesthetic judgment
(C) 	 claiming that the reasons she gives are based on 	
emotions rather than on rational considerations
(D) 	 asserting that the evidence she cites in support
	
	 of her suggestion is false
(E) 	 invoking a competing obligation that he judges
	
	 to override her practical considerations
GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

2

2	

2   	
5. 	 Questions have arisen regarding the accuracy of the
reports the university’s archaeological museum issues
on its sales and acquisitions for the year. To forestall
controversy, this year’s report is being reviewed by
three archaeologists from other universities. Since these
archaeologists will be given full access to all documents
on which the report is based, they will be able to
determine whether it is indeed accurate.
	

The reasoning in the argument is flawed because the
argument
(A) 	 does not specify whether the reviewers will have 	
access to data about objects that have been in
the museum’s collection for many years
(B) 	 provides no information regarding the size
or quality of the archaeological museum’s 	
collection
(C) 	 omits any mention of whether the museum’s
collection is on display or is available only to
researchers
(D) 	 ignores the possibility that there might have been
some sales or acquisitions during the past year
that were not mentioned in the documents on
which the report was based
(E) 	 does not describe what will occur if the reviewers
discover discrepancies between the report and
the documents on which it was based

6. 	 Engineer:    Some people argue that the world’s energy
	
	
problems could be solved by mining the Moon 	
for helium-3, which could be used for fuel in
fusion reactors. But this is nonsense. Even if it
were possible to mine the Moon for helium-3, the
technology needed to build viable fusion reactors
that could use such fuel is at least 50 years away.
If the world’s energy problems are not solved
before then, it will be too late to solve those
problems.
	

The main point of the argument is that
(A) 	 mining the Moon for helium-3 is currently not 	
feasible
(B) 	 fusion reactors that are now being planned are
	
	 not designed to use helium-3 as fuel
(C) 	 people who advocate mining the Moon for
	
	 helium-3 do not realize that fusion reactors
	
	 could be designed to use fuels other than
	
	 helium-3
(D) 	 mining the Moon for helium-3 is not a possible 	
solution to the world’s energy problems
(E) 	 if the world’s energy problems are not solved 	
within the next 50 years, it will be too late to
solve those problems

2	 2	

	

  

Questions 7‑8
	
The fishing industry cannot currently be relied upon to
help the government count the seabirds killed by net fishing,
since an accurate count might result in restriction of net
fishing. The government should therefore institute a
program under which tissue samples from the dead birds
are examined to determine the amount of toxins in the fish
eaten by the birds. The industry would then have a reason to
turn in the bird carcasses, since the industry needs to know
whether the fish it catches are contaminated with toxins.
7. 	 Which one of the following, if true, most strengthens
	
the argument?
(A) 	
	
	
(B) 	

The seabirds that are killed by net fishing do
	 not eat all of the species of fish caught by
	 the fishing industry.
The government has not in the past sought to 	
determine whether fish were contaminated
	
	 with toxins by examining tissue samples of
	
	 seabirds.
(C) 	 The government cannot gain an accurate count
	
	 of the number of seabirds killed by net fishing 	
unless the fishing industry cooperates.
(D) 	 If the government knew that fish caught by the 	
fishing industry were contaminated by toxins, 	
the government would restrict net fishing.
(E) 	 If net fishing were restricted by the government, 	
then the fishing industry would become more 	
inclined to reveal the number of seabirds killed 	
by net fishing.	
8. 	 Which one of the following, if true, most strongly
indicates that the government program would not by
itself provide an accurate count of the seabirds killed by
net fishing?
(A) 	 The seabirds killed by net fishing might be 	
contaminated with several different toxins
	
	 even if the birds eat only one kind of fish.
(B) 	 The fishing industry could learn whether the
	
	 fish it catches are contaminated with toxins
	
	 if only a few of the seabirds killed by the
	
	 nets were examined.
(C) 	 The government could gain valuable
	
	 information about the source of toxins by
	
	 examining tissue samples of the seabirds
	
	 caught in the nets.
(D) 	 The fish caught in a particular net might be 	
contaminated with the same toxins as those
	
	 in the seabirds caught in that net.
(E)	 The government would be willing to certify
	
	 that the fish caught by the industry are not
	
	 contaminated with toxins if tests done on
	
	 the seabirds showed no contamination.

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

2

2	

2   	
9. 	 Some people claim that elected officials must avoid
even the appearance of impropriety in office. Yet since
	
actions that give the appearance of impropriety are not
necessarily improper, the only reason for an elected
official to avoid the appearance of impropriety is to
maintain public approval and popularity. No one,
however, not even a public official, has an obligation to
be popular or to maintain public approval.
	

The argument is structured so as to lead to which one of
the following conclusions?
(A) 	 No elected official has an obligation to avoid
	
	 the appearance of impropriety.
(B) 	 All elected officials have a vested interest in 	
maintaining a high public approval rating.
(C) 	 Elected officials who have been scrupulous in 	
satisfying the obligations of their office should 	
ensure that the public is aware of this fact.
(D) 	 The public never approves of an elected official 	
who appears to have behaved improperly in 	
office.
(E) 	 Elected officials who abuse the power of their 	
office have an obligation at least to appear to be 	
fulfilling the obligations of their office.

10.	 Cafeteria patron:    The apples sold in this cafeteria are 	
greasy. The cashier told me that the apples are in
	
	
that condition when they are delivered to the 	
cafeteria and that the cafeteria does not wash the
	
	
apples it sells. Most fruit is sprayed with
	
	
dangerous pesticides before it is harvested, and
	
	
is dangerous until it is washed. Clearly, the 		
cafeteria is selling pesticide‑covered fruit, thereby 	
endangering its patrons.
	
	

Which one of the following is an assumption on
which the argument depends?
(A) 	 The apples that the cafeteria sells are not 	 	
thoroughly washed after harvest but before 	
reaching the cafeteria.
(B) 	 Most pesticides that are sprayed on fruit before 	
harvest leave a greasy residue on the fruit.
(C) 	 Many of the cafeteria’s patrons are unaware that 	
the cafeteria does not wash the apples it sells.
(D) 	 Only pesticides that leave a greasy residue on
	
	 fruit can be washed off.
(E) 	 Fruits other than apples also arrive at the
	
	 cafeteria in a greasy condition.

2	 2	
  

	

11.	 P:    Because an elected official needs the support of
a political party to be effective, the independent
candidate for the legislature cannot possibly be an
effective legislator if she wins.
	

Q:    I disagree. By your reasoning, our current
legislator, who has the support of a political party,
ought to have been effective, but he has not been.

	

Which one of the following is the best criticism of Q’s
statement?
(A) 	 It simply contradicts P’s claim without offering 	
evidence against it.
(B) 	 It does not consider the possibility that a political 	
party might decide to support an elected
	
	 legislator even though he or she ran as an 	
independent.
(C) 	 It fails to provide a precise definition for a key 	
term—the word “effective.”
(D) 	 It presupposes what is to be proved—that a 	
legislator must have the support of a political 	
party in order to be “effective.”
(E) 	 It mistakenly interprets P to be claiming that a 	
factor assures, rather than is necessary for, a 	
legislator’s effectiveness.

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

2

2	

2   	
Questions 12-13
	
Public health will improve more quickly in the wake
of new medical discoveries if medical researchers abandon
their practice of waiting until their findings are published in
peer-reviewed journals before informing the press of
important research results. That is because the public release
of new medical information allows people to use that
information in order to improve their health, but the peerreview process is unavoidably very slow.

2	 2	

14.	 Between 1977 and 1987, the country of Ravonia lost
about 12,000 jobs in logging and wood processing,
representing a 15 percent decrease in employment in
the country’s timber industry. Paradoxically, this loss of
jobs occurred even as the amount of wood taken from
the forests of Ravonia increased by 10 percent.
	

Not since the 1950s has the timber industry
	 been Ravonia’s most important industry
	 economically.
Between 1977 and 1987, the total number of
	 acres of timberland in Ravonia fell, while
	 the demand for wood products increased.
Since 1977, a growing proportion of the
	 timber that has been cut in Ravonia has
	 been exported as raw, unprocessed wood.
Since 1977, domestic sales of wood and wood 	
products have increased by more than export 	
sales have increased.
(E) 	 In 1977, overall unemployment in Ravonia
	
	 was approximately 10 percent; in 1987,
	
	 Ravonia’s unemployment rate was 15
	
	 percent.

(A) 	
	
	
(B) 	

13.	 Which one of the following, if true, most seriously
weakens the argument?
(A) 	
	
	
(B) 	
	
	
(C) 	
	
	
(D) 	
	
	
	
(E) 	
	

Peer review often prevents the publication of
	 false conclusions drawn on the basis of
	 poorly conducted medical research.
People often alter their life‑styles on the basis
	 of new medical information made available
	 through the press.
Some improvements in public health are due
	 to factors other than the discovery of new
	 medical information.
Some newspapers would be willing to publish
	 the results of medical research before those
	 results have appeared in peer-reviewed
	 journals.
Most peer-reviewed scientific journals would 	
refuse to give up the practice of peer
	 review.

Which one of the following, if true, most helps to
resolve the apparent paradox?
(A) 	
	
	
(B) 	
	
	
(C) 	
	
	
(D) 	

12.	 Which one of the following is an assumption on which
the argument depends?
Many medical researchers do not agree to
	 serve as reviewers when their own research
	 is in a critical phase.
Reviewers for many medical journals are not 	
themselves medical researchers.
(C) 	 People would use new medical information
	
	 even if it were not first published in
	
	 peer‑reviewed journals.
(D) 	 The peer-review process could be speeded up 	
enough to produce a significant
	
	 improvement in public health.
(E) 	 New medical information that is first
	
	 published in peer-reviewed journals does not
	
	 usually receive public attention.

	

  

15.	 To perform an act that is morally wrong is to offend
against humanity, and all offenses against humanity
are equally bad. Because murder is morally wrong, it
is just as bad to have murdered one person by setting
off a bomb as it would have been to have murdered a
hundred people by setting off that bomb.
	

Which one of the following judgments conforms to the
principles invoked above?
(A) 	
	
(B) 	
	
	
(C) 	
	
	
	
(D) 	
	
(E) 	
	
	

	

If lying is morally wrong, telling a lie is as
	 bad as murdering someone.
Risking one’s life to save the lives of a
	 hundred people is morally no better than
	 risking one’s life to save one person.
If stealing is morally wrong, it is equally
	 important to society to prevent people from
	 stealing as it is to prevent them from
	 committing murder.
Accidentally causing the death of a person is
	 just as bad as murdering that person.
In a situation in which the life of one person
	 can be saved only by killing another person,
	 killing and not killing are equally bad.

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

2

2	

2   	
16.	 In yesterday’s council election a majority of voters
supported conservative candidates, and a majority of
voters supported candidates who voted in favor of the
antipollution act. Therefore, it must be that a majority
of voters in yesterday’s council election supported
conservative candidates who voted in favor of the
antipollution act.
	

Which one of the following is an argument that contains
flawed reasoning most similar to the flawed reasoning
in the argument above?
(A) 	 Bill claims that soil can be damaged if it is tilled
when it is too wet, and Sue claims that seeds
planted in wet soil can rot. Therefore, if both
claims are true, gardeners who till and plant
their gardens when the soil is wet damage both
their soil and their seeds.
(B) 	 According to Sara, most children like pies.
According to Robert, most children like
blueberries. So if Sara and Robert are both
right, it must be that most children like pies that
contain blueberries.
(C) 	 Mark will go on a picnic today only if it does
not rain. Susan will go on a picnic today only if
Mark goes too. Since it is not going to rain 	
today, both Mark and Susan will go on a picnic.
(D) 	 The majority of customers who regularly eat at
	
	 this restaurant always order both fish and stuffed
	
	 mushrooms. Thus, fish and stuffed mushrooms
must be the restaurant’s most frequently ordered
dishes.
(E) 	 Most people living at Gina’s house cook well.
Since most people at Gina’s house enjoy eating
well-cooked meals, most meals served at Gina’s
house are cooked well.

2	 2	
  

	

17.	 Politician:    Critics of the wetlands‑protection bill are 	
delaying passage of this important legislation 	
merely on the grounds that they disagree with its
	
	
new, more restrictive definition of the term
“wetlands.” But this bill will place stricter limits
on the development of wetlands than the existing
regulations do. Therefore, in quibbling over
semantics, critics of this bill show that they care
little about what really happens to our wetlands.
	

The politician’s reply to the opponents of the
wetlands‑protection bill is most vulnerable to which
one of the following criticisms?
(A) 	
	
	
	
(B) 	
	
	
(C) 	

It falsely identifies the motives of those who
	 have criticized the wetlands‑protection bill
	 with the motives of all those who are
	 opposed to conservation.
It does not adequately recognize the possibility
	 that the definition of the word “wetlands”
	 determines the impact of the legislation.
It assumes without justification that those who 	
criticized the wetlands‑protection bill stand to
profit if the bill is defeated.
(D) 	 It fails to provide a defense for a less restrictive
definition of “wetlands.”
(E) 	 It attempts to defend the credibility of the author
of the bill rather than defending the bill itself.

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

2

2	

2   	
Questions 18-19
Dillworth:    More and more people are deciding not to
have children because of the personal and economic
sacrifices children require and because so often
children are ungrateful for the considerable sacrifices
their parents do make for them. However, such
considerations have no bearing on the fact that their
children provide the best chance most people have of
ensuring that their values live on after them. Therefore,
for anyone with deeply held values, foregoing
parenthood out of reluctance to make sacrifices for
which little gratitude can be expected would probably
be a mistake.
Travers:    Your reasoning ignores another fact that
	
deserves consideration: children’s ingratitude for
parental sacrifices usually stems from a wholesale
rejection of parental values.

2	 2	
  

20.	 Until about 400 million years ago, fishes—the first
true swimmers—were jawless. Their feeding methods
were limited to either sucking in surface plankton
or sucking in food particles from bottom mud. With
the development of biting jaws, however, the life of
fishes changed dramatically, since jaws allowed them
actively to pursue prey, to seize it in their jaws, and to
manipulate it between their teeth. The jawed fishes then
developed along two main lines: one retained cartilage
for its skeletons, for example, sharks and rays; the other
adopted bone as its principal skeletal material. From
the latter group evolved the most abundant and diverse
of all of today’s vertebrate groups, the “teleosts,” some
21,000 species, which vary from barracudas to sea
horses.
	

19.	 The point of Travers’ rejoinder to Dillworth’s argument
is that
(A) 	 Dillworth’s assumption that children acquire
values only from their parents is mistaken
(B) 	 it is a mistake to dismiss as irrelevant the
personal and economic sacrifices people are
called on to make for the sake of their children
(C) 	 Dillworth has overlooked the well‑known
fact that people with deeply held values not
infrequently reject opposing values that are
deeply held by others
(D) 	 the desire to perpetuate their values should not be
a factor in people’s decision to have children
(E) 	 the fact that children are often ungrateful for
parental sacrifices is not irrelevant to deciding
whether to have children in order to perpetuate
one’s values

If all of the statements in the passage are true, which
one of the following must also be true?
(A) 	 Fish are the primary prey of all jawed fishes.
(B) 	 The jawless fishes did not prey upon other fish.
(C) 	 Teleosts do not feed upon particles found in
bottom mud.
(D) 	 Jawless fishes did not have cartilage as their
skeletal material.
(E) 	 Jawless fishes became extinct approximately 400
million years ago.

18.	 Dillworth employs which one of the following
argumentative strategies?
(A) 	 showing that considerations cited as drawbacks
to a given course of action are not really 	
drawbacks at all
(B) 	 exposing as morally suspect the motives of
people who would make the choice that
Dillworth rejects
(C) 	 indirectly establishing that a given course
of action is obligatory by arguing that the
alternative course of action is prohibited
(D) 	 distinguishing a category of person for whom
the reason presented in favor of a given course
of action is more telling than the reasons cited
against that course of action
(E) 	 using evidence that a certain course of action
would be appropriate under one set of 	
conditions to arrive at a general conclusion
about what would be appropriate in all cases

	

21.	 Nuclear reactors are sometimes built in “geologically
quiet” regions, so called by geologists because such
regions are distant from plate boundaries and contain
only minor faults. Since no minor fault in a geologically
quiet region produces an earthquake more often than
once in any given 100,000-year period, it follows that
of all potential nuclear reactor sites in such a region,
those that are least likely to be struck by an earthquake
are ones located near a fault that has produced an
earthquake within living memory.
	

Which one of the following is an assumption on which
the argument depends?
(A) 	 Geologically quiet regions are the least
dangerous regions in which to build nuclear
reactors.
(B) 	 For any potential nuclear reactor site, the
likelihood of being struck by an earthquake is
the primary determinant of site safety.
(C) 	 In a geologically quiet region, every potential
nuclear reactor site is near at least one minor
fault.
(D) 	 Nuclear reactors that are located in geologically
quiet regions are built to withstand at least one
but not necessarily more than one earthquake of
minor to moderate force.
(E) 	 Earthquake faults in geologically quiet regions
produce earthquakes at least once in 100,000
years.
GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

2

2	

2   	
Questions 22-23
Magazine editor:    I know that some of our regular
advertisers have been pressuring us to give favorable
mention to their products in our articles, but they
should realize that for us to yield to their wishes
would actually be against their interests. To remain
an effective advertising vehicle we must have loyal
readership, and we would soon lose that readership if
our readers suspect that our editorial integrity has been
compromised by pandering to advertisers.
Advertising‑sales director:    You underestimate the
sophistication of our readers. They recognize that
the advertisements we carry are not articles, so their
response to the advertisements has never depended on
their opinion of the editorial integrity of the magazine
as a whole.
22.	 Which one of the following is the most accurate
assessment of the advertising‑sales director’s argument
as a response to the magazine editor’s argument?
(A) 	 It succeeds because it shows that the editor’s
argument depends on an unwarranted
assumption about factors affecting an
advertisement’s effectiveness.
(B) 	 It succeeds because it exposes as mistaken the 	
editor’s estimation of the sophistication of
	
	 the magazine’s readers.
(C) 	 It succeeds because it undermines the editor’s 	
claim about how the magazine’s editorial 	
integrity would be affected by allowing 	 	
advertisers to influence articles.
(D) 	 It fails because the editor’s argument does not 	
depend on any assumption about readers’ 	
response to the advertisements they see in
	
	 the magazine.
(E) 	 It fails because it is based on a misunderstanding 	
of the editor’s view about how readers respond 	
to advertisements they see in the magazine.

2	 2	
  

	

23.	 The magazine editor’s argument assumes which one of
the following?
(A) 	
	
	
	
(B) 	
	

A magazine editor should never be influenced
	 in the performance of his or her professional
	 duties by the wishes of the companies that
	 regularly advertise in the magazine.
The magazine cannot give any favorable
mention in its articles to its regular advertisers 	
without compromising its reputation for 	 	
editorial integrity.
(C) 	 Favorable mention of their products in the
	
	 magazine’s articles is of less value to the 		
advertisers than is the continued effectiveness of 	
the magazine as an advertising vehicle.
(D) 	 Giving favorable mention to a product in a 	
magazine article is a more effective form of
advertising than is an explicit advertisement for
the product in the same magazine.
(E) 	 Carrying paid advertisements can never pose any
threat to the magazine’s reputation for editorial
integrity nor to the loyalty of its readership.

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

2

2	

2   	

2	 2	
  

24.	 Public policy dictates the health risks the public
routinely takes. Statistical arguments about health
risks are used primarily to deflect public fears, while
contributing little to policy debate. For example,
statistics are cited to imply that wearing a seat belt
reduces one’s risk of death in an automobile accident,
deflecting attention from the fact that a transportation
policy that promotes increasing use of automobiles
inherently increases any individual’s risk of death in an
automobile accident.
	

25.	 S:    It would be premature to act to halt the threatened 	
“global warming trend,” since that alleged trend 	
might not be real. After all, scientists disagree
about it, some predicting over twice as much
warming as others, so clearly their predictions
cannot be based on firm evidence.
	

W:    Most scientists consider discussions of accepted
ideas boring, and prefer to argue about what is not
known. According to the International Science
Council, there is a consensus among reputable
investigators that average global warming in the
next century will be from 1.5° to 4.5°C.

	

W’s rejoinder proceeds by

The way the example functions above is most closely
paralleled in which one of the following?
(A) 	
	
	
	

(B) 	
	

(C) 	
	

(D) 	
	

(E) 	

Statistics indicate that an individual’s risk of
	 contracting cancer from radiation emitted by
	 a nuclear power plant is less than that of
	 contracting cancer from sunshine. These 		
statistics draw attention away from the fact 	
that a policy of energy conservation is safer 	
for human health than a policy based on nuclear 	
energy.
Statistics indicate that an urban resident’s risk of
accidental death from any cause is no greater 	
than that of an individual who lives in a 	 	
suburban or rural area. These statistics counter 	
the widely held public belief that  urban areas 	
are more dangerous than suburban or rural 	
areas.
Statistics indicate that the average life
	 expectancy of males is shorter than that of 	
females. This alone should not influence 		
policies regarding eligibility for life insurance 	
because it is also true that any individual’s 	
expectancy can be calculated on the basis of 	
personal characteristics and health practices.
Statistics indicate that the average life
	 expectancy of males is shorter than that of 	
females. When one accounts for the fact that 	
females smoke less and are less likely to work
in jobs in the chemical and manufacturing
industries, the difference in life expectancy is
narrowed.
Statistics indicate that the number of people
dependent on alcohol far exceeds the number
dependent on illegal addictive drugs; thus,
any policy for the control and treatment of
substance abuse should provide for treatment of
alcoholism.

	

(A) 	 denying the existence of the disagreements
	
	 cited by S
(B) 	 accepting S’s conclusion while disputing the 	
reasons offered for it
(C) 	 relying on authorities whose views conflict
	
	 with the views of the authorities cited by S
(D) 	 putting disagreements cited by S in
	
	 perspective by emphasizing similarities
(E) 	 reasoning in a circle by accepting evidence
	
	 only if it agrees with a desired conclusion

S T O P
IF YOU FINISH BEFORE TIME IS CALLED, YOU MAY CHECK YOUR WORK ON THIS SECTION ONLY.
DO NOT WORK ON ANY OTHER SECTION IN THE TEST.

2

3	

3	

3	

3	

SECTION III
Time—35 minutes
25 Questions
Directions:    The questions in this section are based on the reasoning contained in brief statements or passages. For some questions,
more than one of the choices could conceivably answer the question. However, you are to choose the best answer; that is, the response
that most accurately and completely answers the question. You should not make assumptions that are by commonsense standards
implausible, superfluous, or incompatible with the passage. After you have chosen the best answer, blacken the corresponding space
on your answer sheet.
1.	 If a country’s manufacturing capacity is fully utilized,
there can be no industrial growth without new capital
investment. Any reduction in interest rates produces
new capital investment.
	

Which one of the following can be properly concluded
from the statements above?
(A) 	 Interest rates might in exceptional cases be
reduced without there being any subsequent
investment of new capital.
(B) 	 A reduction in interest rates might cause a
precondition for industrial growth to be met.
(C) 	 If a country’s manufacturing capacity is
underutilized, interest rates should be held
constant.
(D) 	 New capital investment that takes place while
interest rates are rising cannot lead to industrial
growth.
(E) 	 Manufacturing capacity newly created by capital
investment needs to be fully utilized if it is to
lead to industrial growth.

2. 	 A certain type of insect trap uses a scented lure to
attract rose beetles into a plastic bag from which it is
difficult for them to escape. If several of these traps
are installed in a backyard garden, the number of rose
beetles in the garden will be greatly reduced. If only
one trap is installed, however, the number of rose
beetles in the garden will actually increase.
	

Which one of the following, if true, most helps to
resolve the apparent discrepancy?
(A) 	 The scent of a single trap’s lure usually cannot be
detected throughout a backyard garden by rose
beetles.
(B) 	 Several traps are better able to catch a large
number of rose beetles than is one trap alone,
since any rose beetles that evade one trap are
likely to encounter another trap if there are
several traps in the garden.
(C) 	 When there are several traps in a garden, they
each capture fewer rose beetles than any single
trap would if it were the only trap in the garden.
(D) 	 The presence of any traps in a backyard garden
will attract more rose beetles than one trap
can catch, but several traps will not attract
significantly more rose beetles to a garden than
one trap will.
(E) 	 When there is only one trap in the garden, the
plastic bag quickly becomes filled to capacity,
allowing some rose beetles to escape.

3. 	 The current move to patent computer programs is a
move in the wrong direction and should be stopped.
The patent system was originally designed solely to
protect small‑time inventors from exploitation, not to
give large corporations control over a methodology.
Any computer program is merely the implementation of
a methodology.
	

Which one of the following is an assumption on which
the argument depends?
(A) 	 Computer programs should be developed not
only by large corporations but by small‑time
inventors as well.
(B) 	 Implementing a methodology always requires
less creative effort than does true invention.
(C) 	 The issue of whether or not to patent computer
programs presents the patent system with
problems that have never before arisen.
(D) 	 Large corporations should not hold patents for
implementations of methodologies.
(E) 	 Small‑time inventors who support the move to
patent computer programs act contrary to their
own best interests.

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

	3	

3	

3	
Questions 4-5
Walter:    For the economically privileged in a society to
tolerate an injustice perpetrated against one of society’s
disadvantaged is not just morally wrong but also
shortsighted: a system that inflicts an injustice on a
disadvantaged person today can equally well inflict
that same injustice on a well‑to‑do person tomorrow.
Larissa:    In our society, the wealthy as well as the
well‑educated can protect themselves against all sorts
of injustices suffered by the less well‑off. Allowing
such injustices to persist is bad policy not because it
places everyone at equal risk of injustice but because it
is a potent source of social unrest.
4. 	 Larissa responds to Walter by doing which one of the
following?
(A) 	 giving reason to doubt the truth of Walter’s 	
conclusion
(B) 	 drawing implausible consequences from 	 	
Walter’s assumptions
(C) 	 questioning Walter’s authority to address 	 	
matters of social policy
(D) 	 providing an alternative reason for accepting 	
the truth of Walter’s conclusion
(E) 	 charging Walter with stopping short of 	 	
recognizing the full implications of his position
5.	 Walter and Larissa are logically committed by what
they say to disagreeing about which one of the
following?
(A) 	
	
(B) 	
	
(C) 	

whether the poor and the rich are part of the
	 same social fabric
whether the most successful members of a
	 society are that society’s least tolerant people
whether the disadvantaged members of society
suffer from injustice
(D) 	 whether those who have the most advantages
	
	 in a society are morally obligated to correct
	
	 that society’s injustices
(E) 	 whether the economically privileged members
	
	 of a society are less exposed to certain sorts
	
	 of injustices than are the economically
	
	 disadvantaged

3	

3	
6.	 Three major laundry detergent manufacturers have
concentrated their powdered detergents by reducing
the proportion of inactive ingredients in the detergent
formulas. The concentrated detergents will be sold
in smaller packages. In explaining the change, the
manufacturers cited the desire to reduce cardboard
packaging and other production costs. Market analysts
predict that the decision of these three manufacturers,
who control 80 percent of the laundry detergent market,
will eventually bring about the virtual disappearance of
old‑style bulky detergents.
	

Which one of the following, if true, most strongly
supports the prediction made by the market analysts?
(A) 	 Most smaller manufacturers of laundry 	
detergents will consider it too expensive to
retool factories for the production of the smaller
detergent packages.
(B) 	 Many consumers will be skeptical initially that
the recommended small amount of concentrated
detergent will clean laundry as effectively as the 	
larger amount of the old‑style detergent did.
(C) 	 Some analysts believe that consumers will have
to pay a greater cost per load of laundry to use
the new concentrated detergent than they 	did to
use the old‑style detergent.
(D) 	 Major supermarkets have announced that they
will not charge the detergent manufacturers
less to display their detergents, even though the
detergents will take up less shelf space.
(E) 	 Consumers are increasingly being persuaded by
environmental concerns to buy concentrated
detergents when available in order to reduce
cardboard waste.

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

	3	

3	

3	
Questions 7-8
Political advocate:   Campaigns for elective office should
be subsidized with public funds. One reason is that
this would allow politicians to devote less time to
fund‑raising, thus giving campaigning incumbents
more time to serve the public. A second reason is that
such subsidies would make it possible to set caps on
individual campaign contributions, thereby reducing
the likelihood that elected officials will be working
for the benefit not of the public but of individual large
contributors.

3	

3	
9. 	 Novice bird-watcher:    I don’t know much about
animal tracks, but I do know that birds typically
have four toes, and most birds have three toes
pointing forward and one toe pointing backward.
Since this track was made by an animal with four
toes, of which three point forward and one points
backward, we can conclude it was made by 	some
kind of bird.
	

(A) 	 relies on the vagueness of the term “track”
(B) 	 does not define birds as animals with four toes
(C) 	 fails to identify what kind of bird might have 	
made the track
(D) 	 does not establish that only a bird could have 	
made the track
(E) 	 depends on evidence about an individual bird 	
rather than about birds in general

Critic:    This argument is problematic: the more the caps
constrain contributions, the more time candidates have
to spend finding more small contributors.
7. 	 The critic objects that the advocate’s argument is flawed
because
(A) 	 any resourceful large contributor can circumvent 	
caps on individual contributions by sending in 	
smaller amounts under various names
(B) 	 one of the projected results cited in support of 	
the proposal made is entailed by the other and 	
therefore does not constitute independent 	
support of the proposal
(C) 	 of the two projected results cited in support of 	
the proposal made, one works against the other
(D) 	 it overlooks the possibility that large contributors 	
will stop contributing if they cannot contribute 	
at will
(E) 	 it overlooks the possibility that incumbents with 	
a few extremely generous contributors will be 	
hit harder by caps than incumbents with many 	
moderately generous contributors
8. 	 Which one of the following principles, if established,
provides a basis for the advocate’s argument?
(A) 	 If complete reliance on private funding of some
activity keeps the public from enjoying a benefit
that could be provided if public funds were 	
used, such public funds should be provided.
(B) 	 If election campaigns are to be funded from
public funds, terms of office for elected officials
should be lengthened.
(C) 	 If in an election campaign large contributions
flow primarily to one candidate, public funds
should be used to support the campaigns of that
candidate’s rivals.
(D) 	 If public funding of some activity produces a
benefit to the public but also inevitably a special
benefit for specific individuals, the activity
should not be fully funded publicly but in part
by the individuals deriving the special benefit.
(E) 	 If a person would not have run for office in the
absence of public campaign subsidies, this
person should not be eligible for any such
subsidies.

The argument is flawed because it

10.	 Psychologists have claimed that many people are more
susceptible to psychological problems in the winter than
in the summer; the psychologists call this condition
seasonal affective disorder. Their claim is based on the
results of surveys in which people were asked to recall
how they felt at various times in the past. However, it
is not clear that people are able to report accurately on
their past psychological states. Therefore, these survey
results do not justify the psychologists’ claim that there
is any such condition as seasonal affective disorder.
	

The author criticizes the psychologists’ claim by
(A) 	 offering an alternative explanation of the
	
variation in the occurrence of psychological 	
problems across seasons
(B) 	 questioning whether any seasonal variation in 	
the occurrence of psychological problems could
properly be labeled a disorder
(C)	 questioning the representativeness of
the population sample surveyed by the
psychologists
(D) 	 questioning an assumption that the author
attributes to the psychologists
(E) 	 demonstrating that fewer people actually
suffer from seasonal affective disorder than
psychologists had previously thought

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

	3	

3	

3	
11.	 Unless the residents of Glen Hills band together, the
proposal to rezone that city will be approved. If it is, the
city will be able to build the water and sewer systems
that developers need in order to construct apartment
houses there. These buildings would attract new
residents, and the increased population would probably
result in overcrowded schools and would certainly
result in roads so congested that new roads would be
built. Neither new roads nor additional schools could be
built without substantial tax increases for the residents
of Glen Hills. Ultimately, this growth might even
destroy the rural atmosphere that makes Glen Hills so
attractive.
	

Which one of the following can be properly concluded
from the passage?
(A) 	 If the citizens of Glen Hills band together, 	
developers will not build apartment houses.
(B) 	 If developers build apartment houses in Glen
	
	 Hills, there will be substantial tax increases
	
	 for the residents of Glen Hills.
(C) 	 If the rezoning proposal does not pass, the rural 	
atmosphere in Glen Hills will not be lost.
(D) 	 If developers do not build apartment houses in 	
Glen Hills, the taxes of the residents of Glen
Hills will not increase substantially.
(E) 	 If developers do not build apartment houses in
Glen Hills, the schools of Glen Hills will not be
overcrowded and roads will not be congested.

12.	 One year ago a local government initiated an
antismoking advertising campaign in local newspapers,
which it financed by imposing a tax on cigarettes of 20
cents per pack. One year later, the number of people
in the locality who smoke cigarettes had declined by 3
percent. Clearly, what was said in the advertisements
had an effect, although a small one, on the number of
people in the locality who smoke cigarettes.
	

3	

3	
13.	 No projects that involve historical restorations were
granted building permits this month. Since some of
the current projects of the firm of Stein and Sapin
are historical restorations, at least some of Stein and
Sapin’s projects were not granted building permits this
month.
	

The pattern of reasoning in the argument above is most
similar to that in which one of the following?
(A) 	 None of the doctors working at City Hospital
were trained abroad. So, although some
hospitals require doctors trained abroad to pass
an extra qualifying exam, until now, at least, this
has not been an issue for City Hospital.
(B) 	 None of the news reports from the economic
summit meeting have been encouraging. Since
some other recent economic reports have 	
showed positive trends, however, at least some
of the economic news is encouraging at this
time.
(C) 	 None of the new members of the orchestra have
completed their paperwork. Since only those
people who have completed their paperwork
can be paid this week, at least some of the new
members of the orchestra are likely to be paid
late.
(D) 	 Several films directed by Hannah Barker were
released this season, but none of the films
released this season were enthusiastically
reviewed. Therefore, at least some of Hannah
Barker’s films have not received enthusiastic
reviews.
(E) 	 Some of the city’s most beautiful parks are not
larger than a few acres, and some of the parks
only a few acres in size are among the city’s
oldest. Therefore, some of the city’s most
beautiful parks are also its oldest parks.

Which one of the following, if true, most helps to
strengthen the argument?
(A) 	 Residents of the locality have not increased their 	
use of other tobacco products such as snuff and
chewing tobacco since the campaign went into
effect.
(B) 	 A substantial number of cigarette smokers in the
locality who did not quit smoking during the
campaign now smoke less than they did before
it began.
(C) 	 Admissions to the local hospital for chronic
respiratory ailments were down by 15 percent
one year after the campaign began.
(D) 	 Merchants in the locality responded to the local
tax by reducing the price at which they sold
cigarettes by 20 cents per pack.
(E) 	 Smokers in the locality had incomes that on
average were 25 percent lower than those of
nonsmokers.

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

	3	

3	

3	
14.	 Many artists claim that art critics find it is easier to
write about art that they dislike than to write about art
that they like. Whether or not this hypothesis is correct,
most art criticism is devoted to art works that fail to
satisfy the critic. Hence it follows that most art criticism
is devoted to works other than the greatest works of art.
	

The conclusion above is properly drawn if which one of
the following is assumed?
(A) 	
	
(B) 	
	
(C) 	

No art critic enjoys writing about art works
	 that he or she dislikes intensely.
All art critics find it difficult to discover art
	 works that truly satisfy them.
A work of art that receives extensive critical 	
attention can thereby become more widely
	
	 known than it otherwise would have been.
(D) 	 The greatest works of art are never recognized
	
	 as such until long after the time of their
	
	 creation.
(E) 	 The greatest works of art are works that
	
	 inevitably satisfy all critics.
15.	 Babies who can hear and have hearing parents who
expose them to speech begin to babble at a certain age
as a precursor to speaking. In the same way, deaf babies
with deaf parents who communicate with them and with
each other by signing begin to babble in signs at the
same age. That is, they make repetitive hand gestures
that constitute, within the language system of signs, the
analogue of repeated syllables in speech.
	

The information above, if accurate, can best be
used as evidence against which one of the following
hypotheses?
(A) 	 Names of persons or things are the simplest 	
words in a language, since babies use them 	
before using the names of actions or processes.
(B) 	 The development of language competency in
	
	 babies depends primarily on the physical 	
maturation of the vocal tract, a process that 	
requires speech‑oriented vocal activity.
(C) 	 In the absence of adults who communicate with 	
each other in their presence, babies develop 	
idiosyncratic languages.
(D) 	 In babbling, babies are unaware that the sound or 	
gesture combinations they use can be employed 	
in a purposive way.
(E) 	 The making of hand gestures by hearing babies 	
who have hearing parents should be interpreted 	
as a part of their developing language.

3	

3	
16.	 Each of the elements of Girelli’s recently completed
design for a university library is copied from a different
one of several historic libraries. The design includes
various features from Classical Greek, Islamic, Mogul,
and Romanesque structures. Since no one element in
the design is original, it follows that the design of the
library cannot be considered original.
	

Which one of the following is a reasoning error made in
the argument?
(A) 	 assuming that because something is true of each
of the parts of a whole it is true of the whole
itself
(B) 	 generalizing illegitimately from a few instances
of a certain kind to all instances of that kind
(C) 	 concluding that an unknown instance of a
phenomenon must have all the properties of the
known instances
(D) 	 presupposing that alternatives that can be true
separately cannot be true together
(E) 	 deriving a factual conclusion from evidence
derived from reports of aesthetic preferences

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

	3	

3	

3	
Questions 17-18
	
Although tales of wonder and the fantastic are integral
to all world literatures, only recently has the fantasy genre
had a commercial resurgence in North America. During
the last 20 years, sales of fantasy‑fiction books written for
adults have gone from 1 to 10 percent of total adult‑fiction
sales. At the same time, the number of favorable reviews
of fantasy books has increased markedly. Some booksellers
say that the increased sales of fantasy books written for
adults can be traced to the increased favorable attention
given the genre by book reviewers.

3	

3	
19.	 Of all the houses in the city’s historic district, the house
that once belonged to the Tyler family is the most
famous by far. Since the historic district is the most
famous district in the city, the Tyler house must be the
city’s most famous house.
	

(A) 	 Of all the peaks in the coastal mountain range,
Mount Williams is the tallest. Since the tallest
peaks in the entire region are in the coastal
mountain range, Mount Williams must be the
region’s tallest peak.
(B) 	 Tobacco smoking is the behavior most likely to
cause lung cancer in people. Since more tobacco
is smoked in Greene County than anywhere else
in the world, there must be more lung cancer in
Greene County than anywhere else in the world.
(C) 	 Susan Coleman is the oldest of the three children
in her family. Since the three Coleman children
are each older than any of the other children
who live in their building, Susan Coleman must
be the oldest child now living in the building.
(D) 	 Of all the fish stores in the harbor area, Miller’s
Fish Market has the most exotic selection of
fish. Since there are many more fish stores in
the harbor area than anywhere else in the city,
Miller’s Fish Market must have the most exotic
selection of fish in the city.
(E) 	 Of all the flowers grown in the university’s
botanical garden, the Oakland roses are the
most beautiful. Since the university’s botanical
garden is the most beautiful garden in the
region, the Oakland roses grown in the garden
must be the most beautiful flowers grown in the
entire region.

17.	 Which one of the following, if true, undermines the
booksellers’ explanation of the growth in sales of
fantasy‑fiction books for adults?
(A) 	 Publishers often select a manuscript on the
basis of whether they think that the published
book will receive favorable reviews by book
reviewers.
(B) 	 Few readers of fantasy fiction read book reviews, 	
and even fewer select books to purchase on the 	
basis of those reviews.
(C) 	 Most booksellers are aware of what major book 	
reviewers have written about recently published 	
books.
(D) 	 Although the increase in the percentage of 	
fantasy books sold has been substantial, 	 	
publishers estimate that sales could increase
even further.
(E) 	 Many of the book reviews of new fantasy‑fiction
novels also mention great fantasy novels of the
past.
18.	 Which one of the following, if true, most strongly
supports the booksellers’ explanation of the growth in
sales of fantasy‑fiction books for adults?
(A)	
(B) 	

(C) 	
(D) 	

(E) 	

Many experts report that on average the reading
level of book buyers has declined over the past
20 years.
Because life during the past 20 years has become
complex and difficult, many readers have come
to prefer the happy endings that fantasy fiction
often provides.
Some fantasy publishers take advantage of the
popularity of certain books by commissioning
similar books.
Because few readers of mystery novels were
buying fantasy fiction, 10 years ago the
major publishers of fantasy fiction created an
advertising campaign directed specifically at
those readers.
After fantasy fiction began to be favorably
reviewed by respected critics 20 years ago, book
buyers began to regard fantasy books as suitable
reading for adults.

The flawed reasoning in the argument above most
closely parallels the flawed reasoning in which one of
the following?

20.	 Morton:    In order to succeed in today’s society,
one must have a college degree. Skeptics have
objected that there are many people who never
completed any education beyond high school
but who are nevertheless quite successful. This
success is only apparent, however, because
without a college degree a person does not have
enough education to be truly successful.
	

Morton’s argument is flawed because it
(A) 	 assumes what it sets out to conclude
(B) 	 mistakes a correlation for a cause
(C) 	 draws a highly general conclusion from evidence
about individual cases
(D) 	 fails to consider the status of alleged
counterexamples
(E) 	 bases its conclusion on the supposition that most
people believe in that conclusion
GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

	3	

3	

3	
21.	 Even the earliest known species of land animals, known
from fossils dating from the late Silurian period, 400
million years ago, show highly evolved adaptations
to life on land. Since neither aquatic nor amphibious
animals exhibit these adaptations, early species of land
animals must have evolved very rapidly after leaving an
aquatic environment.
	

Which one of the following is an assumption on which
the argument depends?
(A) 	
	
	
(B) 	
	
	
(C) 	
	
(D) 	

Known fossils of early land animals include
	 fossils of animals that lived relatively soon
	 after the first emergence of land animals.
Fossils from the late Silurian period represent
	 only a small number of the animal species
	 that were alive at that time.
No plants were established on land before the
	 late Silurian period.
No present‑day species of aquatic animal is 	
descended from a species of animal that
	
	 once lived on land.
(E) 	 All animals alive in the late Silurian period
	
	 lived either exclusively on land or
	
	 exclusively in the water.
22.	 On Saturday Melvin suggested that Jerome take the
following week off from work and accompany him on
a trip to the mountains. Jerome refused, claiming that
he could not afford the cost of the trip added to the
wages he would forfeit by taking off without notice.
It is clear, however, that cost cannot be the real reason
for Jerome’s unwillingness to go with Melvin to the
mountains, since he makes the same excuse every
time Melvin asks him to take an unscheduled vacation
regardless of where Melvin proposes to go.
	

The reasoning is most vulnerable to which one of the
following criticisms?
(A) 	 It attempts to forestall an attack on Melvin’s 	
behavior by focusing attention on the
	
	 behavior of Jerome.
(B) 	 It fails to establish that Melvin could no more 	
afford to take an unscheduled vacation trip
	
	 to the mountains than could Jerome.
(C) 	 It overlooks the possibility that Jerome, unlike 	
Melvin, prefers vacations that have been
	
	 planned far in advance.
(D) 	 It assumes that if Jerome’s professed reason is
	
	 not his only reason, then it cannot be a real
	
	 reason for Jerome at all.
(E) 	 It does not examine the possibility that
	
	 Jerome’s behavior is adequately explained
	
	 by the reason he gives for it.

3	

3	
23.	 Arnold:    I was recently denied a seat on an airline 	
flight for which I had a confirmed reservation,
because the airline had overbooked the flight.
Since I was forced to fly on the next available
flight, which did not depart until two hours later,
I missed an important business meeting. Even
though the flight on which I had a reservation was
canceled at the last minute due to bad weather,
the airline should still pay me compensation for
denying me a seat on the flight.
	

Jamie:    The airline is not morally obligated to pay
you any compensation. Even if you had not been
denied a seat on the earlier flight, you would have
missed your business meeting anyway.

	

A principle that, if established, justifies Jamie’s
response to Arnold is that an airline is morally obligated
to compensate a passenger who has been denied a
seat on a flight for which the passenger has confirmed
reservations
(A) 	 if the only reason the passenger is forced to take
a later flight is that the airline overbooked the
original flight
(B) 	 only if there is a reason the passenger is forced to
take a later flight other than the original flight’s
being canceled due to bad weather
(C) 	 only if the passenger would not have been 	
forced to take a later flight had the airline not
overbooked the original flight
(D) 	 even if the only reason the passenger is forced to
take a later flight were that the original flight is
canceled due to bad weather
(E)	 even if the passenger would still have been
forced to take a later flight had the airline not
overbooked the original flight

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

	3	

3	

3	

3	

3	

24.	 Ditrama is a federation made up of three autonomous
regions: Korva, Mitro, and Guadar. Under the federal
revenue‑sharing plan, each region receives a share
of federal revenues equal to the share of the total
population of Ditrama residing in that region, as shown
by a yearly population survey. Last year, the percentage
of federal revenues Korva received for its share
decreased somewhat even though the population survey
on which the revenue‑sharing was based showed that
Korva’s population had increased.

25.	 By examining fossilized beetles, a research team
has produced the most detailed description yet of
temperatures in Britain over the past 22,000 years.
Fossils of species that still exist were selected and
dated. When individuals of several species found in the
same place were found to date to the same period, the
known temperature tolerances of the existing beetle
species were used to determine the maximum summer
temperature that could have existed at that place and
period.

	

	

If the statements above are true, which one of the
following must also have been shown by the population
survey on which last year’s revenue‑sharing in Ditrama
was based?
(A) 	 Of the three regions, Korva had the smallest 	
number of residents.
(B) 	 The population of Korva grew by a smaller 	
percentage than it did in previous years.
(C) 	 The populations of Mitro and Guadar each 	
increased by a percentage that exceeded the 	
percentage by which the population of Korva
increased.
(D) 	 Of the three regions, Korva’s numerical
	
	 increase in population was the smallest.
(E) 	 Korva’s population grew by a smaller
	
	 percentage than did the population of at least
	
	 one of the other two autonomous regions.

The procedure of the researchers assumes which one of
the following?
(A) 	
	
(B) 	
	
(C) 	
	
(D) 	
	
	
	
	
(E) 	
	
	

Beetles can tolerate warm weather better than
	 cold weather.
Fossils of different species found in the same
	 place belonged to different periods.
The process of dating is more accurate for
	 beetles than for other organisms.
The highest actual summer temperature at a
	 place and period equaled the average of the
	 highest temperatures that could have been
	 tolerated by each of the beetle species found
	 there and dated to that period.
The temperature tolerances of the beetle
	 species did not change significantly during
	 the 22,000‑year period.

S T O P
IF YOU FINISH BEFORE TIME IS CALLED, YOU MAY CHECK YOUR WORK ON THIS SECTION ONLY.
DO NOT WORK ON ANY OTHER SECTION IN THE TEST.

	3	

4	

4	

4	

4	

4	

SECTION IV
Time—35 minutes
27 Questions
Directions:    Each passage in this section is followed by group of questions to be answered on the basis of what is stated or implied
in the passage. For some of the questions, more than one of the choices  could conceivably answer the question. However, you are to
chose the best answer; that is, the response that most accurately and completely answers the question, and blacken the corresponding
space on your answer sheet.
	
	 Many literary scholars believe that Zora Neale
	
Afrocentric standards of evaluation were equally
	
Hurston’s Their Eyes Were Watching God (1937) has
	
important to the rediscovery of Their Eyes, for such
	
been the primary influence on some of the most
standards provided readers with the tools to
	
accomplished Black women writing in the United
	
recognize and appreciate the Black folklore and
(5)	 States today. Indeed, Alice Walker, the author of
(55)	 oral storytelling traditions Hurston incorporated
	
the prize‑winning novel The Color Purple, has said
	
within her work. In one of the most illuminating 	
	
of Their Eyes, “There is no book more important to
discussions of the novel to date, Henry Louis Gates,
	
me than this one.” Thus, it seems necessary to ask
	
Jr., states that “Hurston’s strategy seems to concern
	
why Their Eyes, a work now viewed by a multitude
	
itself with the possibilities of representation of the
(10)	 of readers as remarkably successful in its complex
(60)	 speaking Black voice in writing.”
	
depiction of a Black woman’s search for self and
	
community, was ever relegated to the margins of the
1.	 The passage suggests which one of the following about 	
	
literary canon.
Harriet Wilson’s novel?
	
	 The details of the novel’s initial reception help
(A) 	 It was written at the same time as Their Eyes 	
(15)	 answer this question. Unlike the recently
Were Watching God, but it did not receive as 	
	
rediscovered and reexamined work of Harriet
much critical attention.
	
Wilson, Their Eyes was not totally ignored by book 	
(B)
	
It
greatly influenced Black women writing after 	
reviewers upon its publication. In fact, it received a
the
1940s.
	
mixture of positive and negative reviews both from
(C) 	 It was widely read when it was published, but it 	
(20)	 White book reviewers working for prominent
has not received attention from literary critics 	
	
periodicals and from important figures within Black
until recently.
	
literary circles. In the Saturday Review of Literature,
(D)
	
It
was not formally published, and the 	 	
	
George Stevens wrote that “the narration is exactly
manuscript
has only recently been discovered 	
	
right, because most of it is dialogue and the
by
literary
critics.
(25)	 dialogue gives us a constant sense of character in
(E) 	 It did not receive critical attention when it was 	
	
action.” The negative criticism was partially a result
published, but it has recently become the subject
	
of Hurston’s ideological differences with other
	
of critical study.
	
members of the Black literary community about the 	
depiction of Black Americans in literature. Black
2.	 The passage offers support for which one of the
(30)	 writers of the 1940s believed that the Black artist’s
following statements about literary reviewers and Their
	
primary responsibility was to create protest fiction
Eyes Were Watching God ?
	
that explored the negative effects of racism in the
	
United States. For example, Richard Wright, the
(A) 	 Their Eyes was widely acclaimed by reviewers 	
	
author of the much acclaimed Native Son (1940),
upon its publication, even though it eventually 	
(35)	 wrote that Their Eyes had “no theme” and “no
went out of print.
	
message.” Most critics’ and readers’ expectations of
(B)
	
The
eventual obscurity of Their Eyes was not the 	
	
Black literature rendered them unable to
result
of complete neglect by reviewers.
	
appreciate Hurston’s subtle delineation of the life
(C)
	
Some
early
reviewers of Their Eyes interpreted 	
	
of an ordinary Black woman in a Black community,
the
novel
from
a point of view that later became 	
(40)	 and the novel went quietly out of print.
known
as
Afrocentric.
	
	 Recent acclaim for Their Eyes results from the
(D)	 Their Eyes was more typical of the protest fiction 	
	
emergence of feminist literary criticism and the
of the 1940s than reviewers realized.
	
development of standards of evaluation specific to
(E)
	
Most
early reviewers of Their Eyes did not 	
	
the work of Black writers; these kinds of criticism
respond
positively to the book.
(45)	 changed readers’ expectations of art and enabled 	
them to appreciate Hurston’s novel. The emergence
	
of feminist criticism was crucial because such
	
criticism brought new attention to neglected works
	
such as Hurston’s and alerted readers to Hurston’s  
GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.
(50)	 exploration of women’s issues in her fiction. The

4

4	

4	

4	

3. 	 Which one of the following best states the main idea of
the passage?
(A) 	 Hurston’s Their Eyes Were Watching God had 	
little in common with novels written by Black 	
authors during the 1940s.
(B) 	 Feminist critics and authors such as Alice Walker 	
were instrumental in establishing Hurston’s
Their Eyes Were Watching God as an important 	
part of the American literary canon.
(C) 	 Critics and readers were unable to appreciate 	
fully Hurston’s Their Eyes Were Watching God 	
until critics applied new standards of evaluation 	
to the novel.
(D) 	 Hurston’s Their Eyes Were Watching God was an
important influence on the protest fiction written	
by Black writers in the mid-twentieth century.
(E) 	 Afrocentric strategies of analysis have brought
attention to the use of oral storytelling traditions
in novels written by Black Americans, such as
Hurston’s Their Eyes Were Watching God.
4.	 According to the passage, which one of the following
is true of Black folklore traditions as used in literature
written in the United States?
(A) 	 They are an aspect of Black American literature
first recognized and written about by Henry
Louis Gates, Jr.
(B) 	 They were not widely incorporated into novels 	
written by Black Americans until after the
1940s.
(C) 	 They were first used by a novelist in Zora Neale 	
Hurston’s Their Eyes Were Watching God.
(D) 	 They were not incorporated into novels published
	
by Black Americans in the 1940s.
(E) 	 They are an aspect of Black literature that some 	
readers did not fully appreciate until relatively
recently.
5.	 The passage suggests that Native Son differs from Their
Eyes Were Watching God in which one of the following
ways?
(A) 	 It received fewer positive reviews at the time of
its publication than did Their Eyes.
(B) 	 It is less typical of literature written by Black
Americans during the 1940s than is Their Eyes.
(C) 	 It is less focused on an ordinary individual’s
search for self within a Black community than
is Their Eyes.
(D) 	 It depicts more aspects of Black American
folklore than does Their Eyes.
(E) 	 It has received more attention from feminist and
Afrocentric literary critics than has Their Eyes.

4	

4	

6.	 Which one of the following provides the clearest
example of the kind of fiction that many Black writers
of the 1940s, as their views are described in the
passage, believed should be written?
(A) 	 a novel that focuses on the interrelationships
among four generations of Black women
(B) 	 a historical novel that re‑creates actual events
that occurred as Black people suffered from
oppression and racial injustice in a small 	town
(C) 	 a novel, based on biographical stories orally
relayed to the author as a child, that describes
the development of traditions in a Black family
(D) 	 a novel that explores the psychological aspects of
a relationship between a White man and a Black
man as they work together to organize protests
against unjust working 	conditions
(E) 	 a novel that examines the different ways in which
three Black children experience their first day of
school in a rural community
7.	 The author would be most likely to agree with which
one of the following statements about the relationship
between art and literary criticism?
(A) 	 The long‑term reputation of a work of art is less
dependent on the response of literary critics
than on the response of readers and authors.
(B) 	 Experimental works of fiction are usually poorly
received and misunderstood by literary critics
when they are first published.
(C) 	 The response of literary critics to a work of
art can be determined by certain ideological
perspectives and assumptions about the purpose
of art.
(D) 	 Literary critics do not significantly affect the way
most people interpret and appreciate literature.
(E) 	 The ideological bases of a work of art are the
first consideration of most literary critics.
8.	 The primary purpose of the passage is to
(A) 	
(B) 	
(C) 	
(D) 	
(E) 	

correct a misconception
explain a reassessment
reconcile two points of view
criticize a conventional approach
announce a new discovery

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

4

4	

4	
	
	
	
	
(5)	
	
	
(10)	
	
	
	
(15)	
	
	
	
(20)	
	
	
(25)	
	
(30)	
	
	
	
	
(35)	
	
	
(40)	
	
	
	
(45)	
	
	
	
(50)	
	
	
	
	
(55)	
	

4	

	 Legal cases can be termed “hard” cases if they
raise issues that are highly controversial, issues
about which people with legal training disagree.
The ongoing debate over the completeness of the
law usually concerns the extent to which such hard
cases are legally determinate, or decidable
according to existing law.
	 H. L. A. Hart’s The Concept of Law is still the
clearest and most persuasive statement of both the
standard theory of hard cases and the standard
theory of law on which it rests. For Hart, the law
consists of legal rules formulated in general terms;
these terms he calls “open textured,” which means
that they contain a “core” of settled meaning and a
“penumbra” or “periphery” where their meaning is
not determinate. For example, suppose an
ordinance prohibits the use of vehicles in a park.
“Vehicle” has a core of meaning which includes
cars and motorcycles. But, Hart claims, other
vehicles, such as bicycles, fall within the peripheral
meaning of “vehicle,” so that the law does not
establish whether they are prohibited. There will
always be cases not covered by the core meaning of
legal terms within existing laws; Hart considers
these cases to be legally indeterminate. Since courts
cannot decide such cases on legal grounds, they
must consider nonlegal (for example, moral and
political) grounds, and thereby exercise judicial
discretion to make, rather than apply, law.
	 In Ronald Dworkin’s view the law is richer than
Hart would grant; he denies that the law consists
solely of explicit rules. The law also includes
principles that do not depend for their legal status
on any prior official recognition or enactment.
Dworkin claims that many cases illustrate the
existence of legal principles that are different from
legal rules and that Hart’s “model of rules” cannot
accommodate. For Dworkin, legal rules apply in an
all‑or‑nothing fashion, whereas legal principles do
not: they provide the rationale for applying legal
rules. Thus, because Dworkin thinks there is law in
addition to legal rules, he thinks that legal
indeterminacy and the need for judicial discretion
do not follow from the existence of open texture in
legal rules.
	 It would be a mistake, though, to dispute Hart’s
theory of hard cases on this basis alone. If Hart’s
claim about the “open texture” of general terms is
true, then we should expect to find legal
indeterminacies even if the law consists of
principles in addition to rules. Legal principles, as
well as legal rules, contain general terms that have
open texture. And it would be absurd to suppose
that wherever the meaning of a legal rule is unclear,
there is a legal principle with a clear meaning. Most
interesting and controversial cases will occur in the
penumbra of both rules and principles.

4	

4	

9.	 Which one of the following best expresses the main
idea of the passage?
(A) 	 The law will never be complete because new 	
situations will always arise which will require
new laws to resolve them.
(B) 	 The most difficult legal cases are those
concerning controversial issues about which
trained legal minds have differing opinions.
(C) 	 The concept of legal principles does not diminish
the usefulness of the concept of the open texture
of general terms in deciding whether hard cases
are legally determinate.
(D) 	 The concept of legal principles is a deleterious
addition to the theory of law since any flaws
exhibited by legal rules could also be shared by
legal principles.
(E) 	 The inherent inconsistency of terms used in laws
provides a continuing opportunity for judges to
exercise their discretion to correct defects and
gaps in the law.
10.	 According to the passage, the term “legal principles” as
used by Dworkin refers to
(A) 	 a comprehensive code of ethics that governs the
behavior of professionals in the legal system
(B) 	 explicit analyses of the terms used in legal rules,
indicating what meanings the terms do and do
not cover
(C) 	 legal doctrines that underlie and guide the use of
accepted legal rules
(D) 	 legal rules that have not yet passed through the
entire legislative procedure necessary for 	them
to become law
(E) 	 the body of legal decisions regarding cases that
required judicial discretion for their resolution

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

4

4	

4	

4	

11.	 Which one of the following expresses a view that
the author of the passage would most probably hold
concerning legal principles and legal rules?
(A) 	 Legal rules are applied more often than legal
principles when a case involves issues about
which legal professionals disagree.
(B) 	 Both legal rules and legal principles are officially
recognized as valid parts of the law.
(C) 	 Hart’s “model of rules” has been superseded by
a “model of principles” that sheds light on legal
determinacy.
(D) 	 Legal principles are just as likely as legal rules
to have terms that have both core and peripheral
meanings.
(E) 	 Legal principles eliminate the need for judicial
discretion in resolving the problems generated
by the open texture of legal rules.
12.	 In the passage, the author uses the example of the word
“vehicle” to
(A) 	 illustrate a legal rule that necessarily has
exceptions
(B) 	 show how legal principles are applied in the
construction of legal rules
(C) 	 represent the core of settled meaning of a legal
term
(D) 	 serve as an example of a legal term with both a
core and a periphery of meaning
(E) 	 provide a counterexample to Hart’s concept of
the open texture of legal terms
13.	 It can be inferred that the author of the passage regards
Hart’s theory of hard cases and the theory of standard
law as
	
(A) 	 exhaustive
(B) 	 worthy of respect
(C) 	 interesting but impractical
(D) 	 plausible but unwieldy
(E) 	 hopelessly outmoded

4	

4	

14.	 Which one of the following is true of the term “legally
determinate” (line 6) as it is used in the passage?
(A) 	 It represents the idea that every crime should 	
have a fixed penalty rather than a range of 	
penalties within which a judge can make an 	
arbitrary choice.
(B) 	 It refers to a legal case that can be definitively 	
resolved in favor of one side or the other 		
according to the law in effect at the time.
(C) 	 It describes a legal rule that requires judges to 	
limit their actions to applying written law when 	
deciding cases over which people with legal 	
training disagree.
(D) 	 It refers to any legal case that involves terms 	
with imprecise meanings and thus relies for its 	
resolution only on the determination of judges.
(E) 	 It refers to procedures for determining the legal 	
outcome of complex issues in difficult cases.
15.	 In the passage, the author is primarily concerned with
(A) 	 outlining the problems that might be faced by a
legislature attempting to create a complete body 	
of law that would prevent judges from making 	
rather than applying the law
(B) 	 justifying the idea that “hard” cases will always 	
exist in the practice of law, no matter what laws 	
are written or how they are applied
(C) 	 presenting evidence to support Dworkin’s idea
	
	 that legal rules apply in an all‑or‑nothing 		
fashion, whereas legal principles apply in more 	
sophisticated ways
(D) 	 critiquing the concept of the open texture of legal 	
terms as a conceptual flaw in Hart’s otherwise 	
well‑regarded book
(E) 	 demonstrating that Dworkin’s concept of legal
	
	 principles does not form the basis for a 	 	
successful attack on Hart’s theory of legally 	
indeterminate cases

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

4

4	

4	
	
	
(5)	
	
	
(10)	
	
	
(15)	
	
	
	
(20)	
	
	
(25)	
	
	
(30)	
	

(35)	
	
	
	
(40)	
	
	
	
	
(45)	
	
	
(50)	
	

(55)	
	

4	

	 One way governments can decrease air pollution
is to impose a tax on industrial carbon dioxide
emissions. But why should governments consider a
carbon tax when they could control emissions by
establishing energy efficiency and conservation
standards, by legislating against coal use, or by
increasing investment in nuclear power? The great
virtue of such a tax is that it would provide
incentives for industry to achieve emission
reductions. Because oil emits more carbon dioxide
per unit of energy generated than does natural gas,
and coal more than oil, a carbon tax would vary with
the type of fuel. Such a tax would induce industry to
substitute less‑polluting fuels for those carrying a
higher tax, and also to reduce the total use of
energy.
	 However, it is not clear how high such a tax
should be or what its economic and environmental
implications would be. At first glance, it is not
difficult to estimate roughly the size of the tax
needed to effect a given level of emission reduction.
One writer estimates, for example, that a tax of 41
percent on the price of coal, 33 percent on oil, and
25 percent on gas would reduce the United
Kingdom’s emissions by 20 percent (using 1988 as
the base year) by the year 2005, the target
recommended by the 1988 Toronto Conference. It
should be noted, however, that these numbers
ignore the effect of the tax on economic growth, and
hence on emissions, and assume that past responses
to a price rise will be replicated in the future. These
numbers are also based on the assumption that all
countries will behave cooperatively in imposing a
carbon tax.
	 There are very strong reasons to believe that
cooperation would be difficult to win. If most
countries cooperated, then any country that chose
not to cooperate would be advantaged: it would
have no abatement costs, and the effect on the
environment of its defection would be relatively
small. Because of this “free rider” effect,
cooperation on a scale needed to reduce carbon
dioxide emissions might prove elusive.
	 Should countries act unilaterally to curb
emissions? If a country were to act unilaterally, the
benefits would be spread across the globe, whereas
the costs would fall solely on the country taking the
action. The action would reduce emissions globally,
and the effect of this would be to reduce the benefit
other countries would receive if they reduced
emissions. As a consequence, other countries would
have less incentive to reduce emissions and would
probably emit more carbon dioxide than they would
have if the unilateral action had not been taken.
The entire effect of the emission reduction may not
be lost, but it would surely be diminished by this
free‑riding behavior.

4	

4	

16.	 According to the passage, the size of the carbon tax
levied on a given fuel would vary with the
(A) 	 amount of that fuel used by a particular 	 	
industry
(B) 	 amount of pollution caused by the fuel being 	
taxed
(C) 	 size of the industries using the fuel being 	 	
taxed
(D) 	 effect that the tax would have on a country’s 	
economy
(E) 	 number of users of a particular fuel at a 	 	
particular time
17.	 The author mentions the estimates of “One writer” (line
22) primarily in order to
(A) 	 indicate in a general way the size that a 	 	
carbon tax must be for it to be effective
(B) 	 provide the most accurate information 	 	
available about the most practical size for a 	
carbon tax
(C) 	 suggest that the target recommended by the 	
1988 Toronto Conference is an unrealistic one
(D) 	 undermine the argument that a carbon tax 		
would provide incentives for users to 	 	
achieve emissions reductions
(E) 	 show how the size of an effective carbon tax 	
can be calculated
18.	 Which one of the following circumstances would most
seriously undermine the conclusion “Such a tax would
induce industry to substitute less‑polluting fuels for
those carrying a higher tax” (lines 13‑15)?
(A) 	 The fuel taxed at the highest rate costs 	 	
considerably less to buy than fuels taxed at 	
lower rates.
(B) 	 The goal set by the Toronto Conference 	 	
cannot be reached unless each fuel is taxed 	
at a much higher rate.
(C) 	 The tax on coal represents a much greater cost 	
increase than does the tax on oil or gas.
(D) 	 It is discovered that gas produces even less 	
carbon dioxide per unit of energy generated 	
than was previously thought.
(E) 	 It is discovered that coal produces even more 	
carbon dioxide per unit of energy generated 	
than was previously thought.

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

4

4	

4	

4	

19.	 The passage is primarily intended to answer which one
of the following questions?
(A) 	 How high a tax should a country’s government
impose on carbon dioxide emissions?
(B) 	 What issues should a country’s government
consider before deciding whether to impose a
tax on carbon dioxide emissions?
(C) 	 What assumptions underlie a country’s decision
to impose a tax on carbon dioxide emissions?
(D) 	 How can the effects of industrial pollution on the
Earth’s atmosphere be decreased?
(E) 	 What can be done to increase the effectiveness
of any tax that a country imposes on carbon
dioxide emissions?
20.	 In response to the question, “Should countries act
unilaterally to curb emissions?” (lines 44‑45), the
author would be most likely to contend that a country
should
(A) 	 not act unilaterally because, although that
country would receive some benefits from such
action, other countries would most likely be
harmed by it
(B) 	 not act unilaterally because unilateral action 	
would have no benefits for other countries
(C) 	 not act unilaterally because the cost o that 	
country would not be justified by the limited
effect that such action would have on industrial
pollution worldwide
(D) 	 act unilaterally because that country’s economy
would benefit from the resulting reduction in
industrial emissions worldwide
(E) 	 act unilaterally because other countries might
well be inspired to follow that country’s
example

4	

4	

21.	 Which one of the following is most parallel to the “free
rider” effect mentioned in line 41?
(A) 	 An industry agrees to base itself in a city where
there has been little industrial development only
if the city will rezone the specific property the
industry desires.
(B) 	 Because fares for public transportation are rising,
a commuter decides to bicycle to work rather
than to use public transportation in a city where
auto emissions are a problem.
(C) 	 An apartment dweller begins to recycle
newspapers even though no one else in the
building does so and recycling is not required
by law.
(D) 	 In an area where groundwater has become
polluted, a homeowner continues to buy bottled
water rather than contribute to a neighborhood
fund to combat pollution.
(E) 	 In an area where overgrazing is a severe problem,
a shepherd allows his sheep to continue grazing
common fields even though his neighbors
have agreed to buy feed for their animals until
regrowth occurs.

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

4

4	

4	
	
	
	
	
(5)	
	
	
(10)	
	
	
	
	
(15)	
	
	
	
	
(20)	
	
	
(25)	
	
	
(30)	
	
	
	
(35)	
	
	
(40)	

	
(45)	
	
	
	
	
(50)	
	
	
	
(55)	
	
	
	
	

4	

	 Some meteorologists have insisted that the
severity of the drought in sub‑Saharan West Africa
and its long duration (nearly 40 years to date) must
be a sign of a long‑term alteration in climate.
Among the theories proposed to explain this
change, one hypothesis that has gained widespread
attention attributes the drought to a cooling of the
Northern Hemisphere. This hypothesis is based on
the fact that, between 1945 and the early 1970s, the
average annual air temperatures over the
landmasses of the Northern Hemisphere decreased
by about half a degree Fahrenheit (approximately
one quarter of a degree Celsius—a small but
significant amount). Several meteorologists have
suggested that this cooling was caused by an
increase in atmospheric dust emanating from
volcanic eruptions and from urban and industrial
pollution; the dust reflected incoming sunlight,
causing the ground to receive less solar radiation
and to transfer less heat to the atmosphere. The
cooling seemed to be more pronounced in the
middle and high latitudes than in the tropics, an
observation that is consistent with the fact that the
Sun’s rays enter the atmosphere at a greater angle
farther north, and so have to pass through more
dust‑laden atmosphere on the way to the Earth.
	 Since winds are set in motion by differences in
air pressure caused by unequal heating of the
atmosphere, supporters of the cooling hypothesis
have argued that a growing temperature differential
between the unusually cool middle and high
latitudes and the warm tropical latitudes is causing
a southward expansion of the circumpolar
vortex—the high‑altitude westerly winds that circle
the Northern Hemisphere at middle latitudes.
According to this hypothesis, as the circumpolar
vortex expands, it forces south other components of
large‑scale atmospheric circulation and, in effect,
displaces the northward‑moving monsoon that
ordinarily brings sub‑Saharan rain. Proponents
have further argued that this change in atmospheric
circulation might be long‑term since cooling in the
Northern Hemisphere could be perpetuated by
increases in ice and snow coverage there, which
would lead to reflection of more sunlight away from
the Earth, to further cooling, and, indirectly, to
further drought in sub‑Saharan West Africa.
	 Despite these dire predictions, and even though
the current African drought has lasted longer than
any other in this century, the notion that the
drought is caused by cooling of the Northern
Hemisphere is, in fact, not well supported. Contrary
to the predictions of the cooling hypothesis, during
one period of rapid Northern Hemisphere cooling
in the early 1950s, the sub‑Sahara was unusually
rainy. Moreover, in the early 1980s, when the
drought was particularly severe, Northern
Hemisphere lands actually warmed slightly. And
further doubt has been cast on the hypothesis by

4	

4	

(60)	 recent analyses suggesting that, when surface
temperatures of water as well as land are taken into
account, the Northern Hemisphere may not have
	
cooled at all.
22.	 Which one of the following best expresses the main
idea of the passage?
(A) 	 There is strong evidence to support the theory 	
that an increase in atmospheric dust has 	 	
contributed to the severity of the drought in 	
sub‑Saharan West Africa.
(B) 	 The suggestion that Northern Hemisphere 	
cooling is contributing to a decline of rainfall in 	
sub‑Saharan West Africa is open to question.
(C) 	 The expansion of the circumpolar vortex has
caused a dramatic shift in the atmospheric
circulation patterns above sub‑Saharan West
Africa.
(D) 	 The drought in sub‑Saharan West Africa
represents a long‑term, permanent alteration in
global climate patterns.
(E) 	 Meteorologists cannot determine when the
drought in sub‑Saharan West Africa is likely to
end.
23.	 The author’s attitude toward the cooling hypothesis is
best described as one of
(A) 	 vehement opposition
(B) 	 cautious skepticism
(C) 	 growing ambivalence
(D) 	 guarded enthusiasm
(E) 	 strong support
	
	
	
	
	
24.	 According to the passage, proponents of the cooling
hypothesis suggested that the circumpolar vortex is
likely to expand when which one of the following
occurs?
(A) 	 The average annual atmospheric temperature of
the tropics is significantly higher than normal
for an extended period of time.
(B) 	 The average annual snowfall in the Northern
Hemisphere is lower than normal for an
extended period of time.
(C) 	 The average annual surface temperature of
Northern Hemisphere waters is higher than the
average annual surface temperature of Northern
Hemisphere landmasses.
(D) 	 There is a significant increase in the difference
between the average annual atmospheric
temperature of the tropics and that of the more
northern latitudes.
(E) 	 There is a significant increase in the difference
between the average annual atmospheric
temperatures of the middle and the high 	
latitudes in the Northern Hemisphere.
GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

4

4	

4	

4	

25.	 Which one of the following can be inferred from the
passage about the average annual temperature of the air
over Northern Hemisphere landmasses before 1945?
(A) 	 It was higher than it was between 1945 and the
early 1970s.
(B) 	 It was lower than it was during the early 1980s.
(C) 	 It was the same as it was between 1945 and 	
the early 1970s.
(D) 	 It was the same as the annual average surface
temperature of Northern Hemisphere
landmasses and bodies of water between 1945
and the early 1970s.
(E) 	 It was higher than the annual average surface
temperature of Northern Hemisphere
landmasses and bodies of water between 1945
and the early 1970s.
26.	 Which one of the following best describes the
organization of the passage?

4	

4	

27.	 A proponent of the cooling hypothesis would most
likely argue that the return of the monsoon rains to
sub‑Saharan West Africa would indicate that which one
of the following has also occurred?
(A) 	 The amount of ice and snow coverage over the
landmasses of the Northern Hemisphere has
increased.
(B) 	 The average annual temperature of the
atmosphere over the middle and high latitudes
of the Northern Hemisphere has decreased.
(C) 	 The average annual temperature of the 	
atmosphere over the tropics in the Northern
Hemisphere has increased.
(D) 	 Other components of large‑scale atmospheric
circulation, besides the circumpolar vortex, have
expanded and moved southward.
(E) 	 The atmospheric circulation pattern of the 	
high‑altitude westerly winds has resumed its
normal pattern.

(A) 	 Opposing points of view are presented, evidence
supporting each point of view is discussed,
and then one point of view is developed into a
formal hypothesis.
(B) 	 A theory is discussed, and different points of
view about the theory are discussed, supported,
and then reconciled.
(C) 	 A hypothesis is proposed, contradictory evidence
is discussed, and then the hypothesis is
amended.
(D) 	 A theory explaining a phenomenon is proposed,
supporting evidence is considered, and then the
theory is disputed.
(E) 	 A point of view is presented, a theory supporting
the view is proposed, contradictory evidence
is presented, and then a different theory is
proposed.

S T O P
IF YOU FINISH BEFORE TIME IS CALLED, YOU MAY CHECK YOUR WORK ON THIS SECTION ONLY.
DO NOT WORK ON ANY OTHER SECTION IN THE TEST.

4

Computing Your Score

Directions:
1.	 Use the Answer Key on the next page to check your
	 answers.
2. 	 Use the Scoring Worksheet below to compute your
	 raw score.
3. 	 Use the Score Conversion Chart to convert your
	 raw score into the 120-180 scale.
Scoring Worksheet
1. 	 Enter the number of questions you answered
	 correctly in each section.
Number
Correct
	
	
	
	

SECTION I.	.	 .	 .	 .	
SECTION II	.	 .	 .	 .	
SECTION III.	.	 .	 .	
SECTION IV.	 .	 .	 .	

2. 	 Enter the sum here:	
	
	 	 	 	
	 	 	 	 This is your Raw Score.

Conversion Chart:
For Converting Raw Score to the 120-180 LSAT
Scaled Score
LSAT Forms 5LSS24 AND S5LSS24
    Reported	
	
Score 	
180
179
178
177
176
175
174
173
172
171
170
169
168
167
166
165
164
163
162
161
160
159
158
157
156
155
154
153
152
151
150
149
148
147
146
145
144
143
142
141
140
139
138
137
136
135
134
133
132
131
130
129
128
127
126
125
124
123
122
121
120

	
Raw Score
Lowest 	
98
97
95
94
93
92
91
90
89
88
86
85
84
82
81
79
78
76
75
73
72
70
69
67
65
64
62
60
58
57
55
54
52
50
49
47
46
44
42
41
39
38
36
35
33
32
30
29
28
27
26
24
23
22
21
20
19
18
17
16
0

Highest	
101
97
96
94
93
92
91
90
89
88
87
85
84
83
81
80
78
77
75
74
72
71
69
68
66
64
63
61
59
58
56
54
53
51
49
48
46
45
43
41
40
38
37
35
34
32
31
29
28
27
26
25
23
22
21
20
19
18
17
16
15

Answer Key

SECTION I
	
	
	
	
	
	
	

1.  E		
2.  E		
3.  B		
4.  B		
5.  D		
6.  D		
7.  C		

8.	
9.	
10.	
11.	
12.	
13.	
14.	

B	
E	
E	
E	
B	
E	
D	

	
	
	
	
	
	
	

15.	
16.	
17.	
18.	
19.	
20.	
21.	

D	
B	
B	
A	
D	
E	
C	

22.	 C	
23.	 B	
24.	 B	

A	
B	
B	
D	
E	
B	
C	

22.	
23.	
24.	
25.	

D	
C	
A	
D	

B	
A	
B	
E	
E	
A	
A	

22.	
23.	
24.	
25.	

E	
C	
E	
E	

E	
B	
A	
A	
B	
C	
E	

22.	
23.	
24.	
25.	
26.	
27.	
	

B	
B	
D	
A	
D	
E	
	

SECTION II
	
	
	
	
	
	
	

1.	
2.	
3.	
4.	
5.	
6.	
7.	

B	
E	
C	
E	
D	
D	
C	

8.	
9.	
10.	
11.	
12.	
13.	
14.	

B	
A	
A	
E	
C	
A	
C	

	
	
	
	
	
	
	

15.	
16.	
17.	
18.	
19.	
20.	
21.	

	

SECTION III
	
	
	
	
	
	
	

1.	
2.	
3.	
4.	
5.	
6.	
7.	

B	
D	
D	
D	
E	
E	
C	

8.	
9.	
10.	
11.	
12.	
13.	
14.	

A	
D	
D	
B	
D	
D	
E	

	
	
	
	
	
	
	

15.	
16.	
17.	
18.	
19.	
20.	
21.	

SECTION IV
	
	
	
	
	
	
	

1.	
2.	
3.	
4.	
5.	
6.	
7.	

E	
B	
C	
E	
C	
B	
C	

8.	
9.	
10.	
11.	
12.	
13.	
14.	

B	
C	
C	
D	
D	
B	
B	

	
	
	
	
	
	
	

15.	
16.	
17.	
18.	
19.	
20.	
21.	

	

	

