October 2008
Full-Length LSAT

1	

			 1

1	
SECTION I
Time—35 minutes
25 Questions

Directions: The questions in this section are based on the reasoning contained in brief statements or passages. For some questions,
more than one of the choices could conceivably answer the question. However, you are to choose the best answer; that is, the response
that most accurately and completely answers the question. You should not make assumptions that are by commonsense standards
implausible, superfluous, or incompatible with the passage. After you have chosen the best answer, blacken the corresponding space
on your answer sheet.
1.	 The editor of a magazine has pointed out several
errors of spelling and grammar committed on a recent
TV program. But she can hardly be trusted to pass
judgment on such matters: similar errors have been
found in her own magazine.
	

The flawed reasoning in the argument above is most
similar to that in which one of the following?
(A) 	 Your newspaper cannot be trusted with the
prerogative to criticize the ethics of our
company: you misspelled our president’s name.
(B) 	 Your news program cannot be trusted to judge
our hiring practices as unfair: you yourselves
unfairly discriminate in hiring and promotion
decisions.
(C) 	 Your regulatory agency cannot condemn our
product as unsafe: selling it is allowed under an
existing-product clause.
(D) 	 Your coach cannot be trusted to judge our
swimming practices: he accepted a lucrative
promotional deal from a soft-drink company.
(E) 	 Your teen magazine should not run this feature
on problems afflicting modern high schools:
your revenue depends on not alienating the high
school audience.

2.	 Soaking dried beans overnight before cooking them
reduces cooking time. However, cooking without
presoaking yields plumper beans. Therefore, when a
bean dish’s quality is more important than the need to
cook that dish quickly, beans should not be presoaked.
	

Which one of the following is an assumption required
by the argument?
(A) 	 Plumper beans enhance the quality of a dish.
(B) 	 There are no dishes whose quality improves with
faster cooking.
(C) 	 A dish’s appearance is as important as its taste.
(D) 	 None of the other ingredients in the dish need to
be presoaked.
(E) 	 The plumper the bean, the better it tastes.

3.	 Durth: Increasingly, businesses use direct mail
advertising instead of paying for advertising space
in newspapers, in magazines, or on billboards.
This practice is annoying and also immoral. Most
direct mail advertisements are thrown out without
ever being read, and the paper on which they are
printed is wasted. If anyone else wasted this much
paper, it would be considered unconscionable.
	

Which one of the following most accurately describes
Durth’s method of reasoning?
(A) 	 presenting a specific counterexample to the
contention that direct mail advertising is not
immoral
(B) 	 asserting that there would be very undesirable
consequences if direct mail advertising became
a more widespread practice than it is now
(C) 	 claiming that direct mail advertising is immoral
because one of its results would be deemed
immoral in other contexts
(D) 	 basing a conclusion on the claim that direct mail
advertising is annoying to those who receive it
(E) 	 asserting that other advertising methods do
not have the negative effects of direct mail
advertising

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

1	

			 1

1	
4.	 Among the various models of Delta vacuum cleaners,
one cannot accurately predict how effectively a
particular model cleans simply by determining how
powerful its motor is. The efficiency of dust filtration
systems varies significantly, even between models
of Delta vacuum cleaners equipped with identically
powerful motors.
	

The argument’s conclusion is properly drawn if which
one of the following is assumed?
(A) 	 For each Delta vacuum cleaner, the efficiency of
its dust filtration system has a significant impact
on how effectively it cleans.
(B) 	 One can accurately infer how powerful a Delta
vacuum cleaner’s motor is from the efficiency
of the vacuum cleaner’s dust filtration system.
(C) 	 All Delta vacuum cleaners that clean equally
effectively have identically powerful motors.
(D) 	 For any two Delta vacuum cleaners with equally
efficient dust filtration systems, the one with the
more powerful motor cleans more effectively.
(E) 	 One cannot accurately assess how effectively any
Delta vacuum cleaner cleans without knowing
how powerful that vacuum cleaner’s motor is.

5.	 Many scientists believe that bipedal locomotion
(walking on two feet) evolved in early hominids in
response to the move from life in dense forests to life
in open grasslands. Bipedalism would have allowed
early hominids to see over tall grasses, helping them to
locate food and to detect and avoid predators. However,
because bipedalism also would have conferred
substantial advantages upon early hominids who never
left the forest—in gathering food found within standing
reach of the forest floor, for example—debate continues
concerning its origins. It may even have evolved, like
the upright threat displays of many large apes, because
it bettered an individual’s odds of finding a mate.
	

Which one of the following statements is most
supported by the information above?
(A) 	 For early hominids, forest environments were
generally more hospitable than grassland
environments.
(B) 	 Bipedal locomotion would have helped early
hominids gather food.
(C) 	 Bipedal locomotion actually would not be
advantageous to hominids living in open
grassland environments.
(D) 	 Bipedal locomotion probably evolved among
early hominids who exclusively inhabited forest
environments.
(E) 	 For early hominids, gathering food was more
relevant to survival than was detecting and
avoiding predators.

6.	 Mathematics teacher: Teaching students calculus
before they attend university may significantly
benefit them. Yet if students are taught calculus
before they are ready for the level of abstraction
involved, they may abandon the study of
mathematics altogether. So if we are going to
teach pre-university students calculus, we must
make sure they can handle the level of abstraction
involved.
	

Which one of the following principles most helps to
justify the mathematics teacher’s argument?
(A) 	 Only those who, without losing motivation,
can meet the cognitive challenges that new
intellectual work involves should be introduced
to it.
(B) 	 Only those parts of university-level mathematics
that are the most concrete should be taught to
pre-university students.
(C) 	 Cognitive tasks that require exceptional effort
tend to undermine the motivation of those who
attempt them.
(D) 	 Teachers who teach university-level mathematics
to pre-university students should be aware that
students are likely to learn effectively only
when the application of mathematics to concrete
problems is shown.
(E) 	 The level of abstraction involved in a topic
should not be considered in determining
whether that topic is appropriate for preuniversity students.

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

1	

			 1

1	
7.	 In 1955, legislation in a certain country gave the
government increased control over industrial workplace
safety conditions. Among the high-risk industries in
that country, the likelihood that a worker will suffer a
serious injury has decreased since 1955. The legislation,
therefore, has increased overall worker safety within
high-risk industries.

9.	 Several major earthquakes have occurred in a certain
region over the last ten years. But a new earthquake
prediction method promises to aid local civil defense
officials in deciding exactly when to evacuate various
towns. Detected before each of these major quakes were
certain changes in the electric current in the earth’s
crust.

	

	

Which one of the following, if true, most weakens the
argument above?
(A) 	 Because of technological innovation, most
workplaces in the high-risk industries do
not require as much unprotected interaction
between workers and heavy machinery as they
did in 1955.
(B) 	 Most of the work-related injuries that occurred
before 1955 were the result of worker
carelessness.
(C) 	 The annual number of work-related injuries has
increased since the legislation took effect.
(D) 	 The number of work-related injuries occurring
within industries not considered high-risk has
increased annually since 1955.
(E) 	 Workplace safety conditions in all industries
have improved steadily since 1955.

8.	 Economist: Historically, sunflower seed was one of
the largest production crops in Kalotopia, and
it continues to be a major source of income
for several countries. The renewed growing of
sunflowers would provide relief to Kalotopia’s
farming industry, which is quite unstable. Further,
sunflower oil can provide a variety of products,
both industrial and consumer, at little cost to
Kalotopia’s already fragile environment.
	

The economist’s statements, if true, most strongly
support which one of the following?
(A)	
(B)	
(C)	

(D)	

(E)	

Kalotopia’s farming industry will deteriorate if
sunflowers are not grown there.
Stabilizing Kalotopia’s farming industry would
improve the economy without damaging the
environment.
Kalotopia’s farming industry would be better off
now if it had never ceased to grow any of the
crops that historically were large production
crops.
A crop that was once a large production crop in
Kalotopia would, if it were grown there again,
benefit that country’s farmers and general
economy.
Sunflower seed is a better crop for Kalotopia
from both the environmental and the economic
viewpoints than are most crops that could be
grown there.

Which one of the following, if true, most weakens the
argument?
(A) 	 Scientists do not fully understand what brought
about the changes in the electric current in the
earth’s crust that preceded each of the major
quakes in the region over the last ten years.
(B) 	 Most other earthquake prediction methods
have been based on a weaker correlation than
that found between the changes in the electric
current in the earth’s crust and the subsequent
earthquakes.
(C) 	 The frequency of major earthquakes in the region
has increased over the last ten years.
(D) 	 There is considerable variation in the length of
time between the changes in the electric current
and the subsequent earthquakes.
(E) 	 There is presently only one station in the region
that is capable of detecting the electric current
in the earth’s crust.

10.	 Unlike many machines that are perfectly useful in
isolation from others, fax machines must work with
other fax machines. Thus, in the fax industry, the
proliferation of incompatible formats, which resulted
from the large number of competing manufacturers,
severely limited the usefulness—and hence the
commercial viability—of fax technology until the
manufacturers agreed to adopt a common format for
their machines.
	

The information above provides the most support for
which one of the following propositions?
(A) 	 Whenever machines are dependent on other
machines of the same type, competition among
manufacturers is damaging to the industry.
(B) 	 In some industries it is in the interest of
competitors to cooperate to some extent with
one another.
(C) 	 The more competitors there are in a high-tech
industry, the more they will have to cooperate in
determining the basic design of their product.
(D) 	 Some cooperation among manufacturers in the
same industry is more beneficial than is pure
competition.
(E) 	 Cooperation is beneficial only in industries
whose products depend on other products of the
same type.

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

1	

			 1

1	
11.	 In comparing different methods by which a teacher’s
performance can be evaluated and educational
outcomes improved, researchers found that a critique
of teacher performance leads to enhanced educational
outcomes if the critique is accompanied by the
information that teacher performance is merely one
of several factors that, in concert with other factors,
determines the educational outcomes.
	

Which one of the following best illustrates the principle
illustrated by the finding of the researchers?
(A) 	 Children can usually be taught to master subject
matter in which they have no interest if they
believe that successfully mastering it will earn
the respect of their peers.
(B) 	 People are generally more willing to accept
a negative characterization of a small group
of people if they do not see themselves as
members of the group being so characterized.
(C) 	 An actor can more effectively evaluate the merits
of her own performance if she can successfully
convince herself that she is really evaluating the
performance of another actor.
(D) 	 The opinions reached by a social scientist in the
study of a society can be considered as more
reliable and objective if that social scientist is
not a member of that society.
(E) 	 It is easier to correct the mistakes of an athlete
if it is made clear to him that the criticism
is part of an overarching effort to rectify the
shortcomings of the entire team on which he
plays.

12.	 Critic: A novel cannot be of the highest quality unless
most readers become emotionally engaged with
the imaginary world it describes. Thus shifts of
narrative point of view within a novel, either
between first and third person or of some other
sort, detract from the merit of the work, since
such shifts tend to make most readers focus on the
author.
	

Which one of the following is an assumption necessary
for the critic’s conclusion to be properly drawn?
(A) 	 Most readers become emotionally engaged with
the imaginary world described by a novel only
if the novel is of the highest quality.
(B) 	 A novel is generally not considered to be of
high quality unless it successfully engages the
imagination of most readers.
(C) 	 Most readers cannot become emotionally
involved with a novel’s imaginary world if they
focus on the author.
(D) 	 Most readers regard a novel’s narrative point
of view as representing the perspective of the
novel’s author.
(E) 	 Shifts in narrative point of view serve no literary
purpose.

13.	 People aged 46 to 55 spend more money per capita
than people of any other age group. So it is puzzling
that when companies advertise consumer products on
television, they focus almost exclusively on people aged
25 and under. Indeed, those who make decisions about
television advertising think that the value of a television
advertising slot depends entirely on the number of
people aged 25 and under who can be expected to be
watching at that time.
	

Which one of the following, if true, most helps to
explain the puzzling facts stated above?
(A) 	 The expense of television advertising slots makes
it crucial for companies to target people who are
most likely to purchase their products.
(B) 	 Advertising slots during news programs almost
always cost far less than advertising slots during
popular sitcoms whose leading characters are
young adults.
(C) 	 When television executives decide which shows
to renew, they do so primarily in terms of the
shows’ ratings among people aged 25 and under.
(D) 	 Those who make decisions about television
advertising believe that people older than 25
almost never change their buying habits.
(E) 	 When companies advertise consumer products
in print media, they focus primarily on people
aged 26 and over.

14.	 Eighteenth-century moralist: You should never make
an effort to acquire expensive new tastes, since
they are a drain on your purse and in the course
of acquiring them you may expose yourself to
sensations that are obnoxious to you. Furthermore,
the very effort that must be expended in their
acquisition attests their superfluity.
	

The moralist’s reasoning is most vulnerable to criticism
on the grounds that the moralist
(A)	
(B)	
(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

draws a conclusion that simply restates a claim
presented in support of that conclusion
takes for granted that the acquisition of expensive
tastes will lead to financial irresponsibility
uses the inherently vague term “sensations”
without providing a definition of that term
mistakes a cause of acquisition of expensive
tastes for an effect of acquisition of such tastes
rejects trying to achieve a goal because of the
cost of achieving it, without considering the
benefits of achieving it

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

1	

			 1

1	
15.	 Zack’s Coffeehouse schedules free poetry readings
almost every Wednesday. Zack’s offers half-priced
coffee all day on every day that a poetry reading is
scheduled.
	

Which one of the following can be properly inferred
from the information above?
(A) 	 Wednesday is the most common day on which
Zack’s offers half-priced coffee all day.
(B) 	 Most free poetry readings given at Zack’s are
scheduled for Wednesdays.
(C) 	 Free poetry readings are scheduled on almost
every day that Zack’s offers half-priced coffee
all day.
(D) 	 Zack’s offers half-priced coffee all day on most
if not all Wednesdays.
(E) 	 On some Wednesdays Zack’s does not offer halfpriced coffee all day.

17.	 It is a mistake to conclude, as some have, that ancient
people did not know what moral rights were simply
because no known ancient language has an expression
correctly translatable as “a moral right.” This would be
like saying that a person who discovers a wild fruit tree
and returns repeatedly to harvest from it and study it
has no idea what the fruit is until naming it or learning
its name.
	

(A) 	 To know the name of something is to know what
that thing is.
(B) 	 People who first discover what something is
know it better than do people who merely know
the name of the thing.
(C) 	 The name or expression that is used to identify
something cannot provide any information
about the nature of the thing that is identified.
(D) 	 A person who repeatedly harvests from a wild
fruit tree and studies it has some idea of what
the fruit is even before knowing a name for the
fruit.
(E) 	 One need not know what something is before one
can name it.

16.	 Philosopher: An event is intentional if it is a human
action performed on the basis of a specific
motivation. An event is random if it is not
performed on the basis of a specific motivation
and it is not explainable by normal physical
processes.
	

Which one of the following inferences conforms most
closely to the philosopher’s position?
(A) 	 Tarik left the keys untouched on the kitchen
counter, but he did not do so on the basis of
a specific motivation. Therefore, the keys’
remaining on the kitchen counter was a random
event.
(B) 	 Ellis tore the envelope open in order to read
its contents, but the envelope was empty.
Nevertheless, because Ellis acted on the basis of
a specific motivation, tearing the envelope open
was an intentional event.
(C) 	 Judith’s hailing a cab distracted a driver in the
left lane. She performed the action of hailing the
cab on the basis of a specific motivation, so the
driver’s becoming distracted was an intentional
event.
(D) 	 Yasuko continued to breathe regularly throughout
the time that she was asleep. This was a human
action, but it was not performed on the basis of
a specific motivation. Therefore, her breathing
was a random event.
(E) 	 Henry lost his hold on the wrench and dropped
it because the handle was slippery. This was
a human action and is explainable by normal
physical processes, so it was an intentional
event.

Which one of the following is an assumption required
by the argument?

18.	 There is little plausibility to the claim that it is absurd
to criticize anyone for being critical. Obviously, people
must assess one another and not all assessments will
be positive. However, there is wisdom behind the
injunction against being judgmental. To be judgmental
is not merely to assess someone negatively, but to do so
prior to a serious effort at understanding.
	

Which one of the following most accurately expresses
the main conclusion drawn in the argument?
(A) 	 To be judgmental is to assess someone
negatively prior to making a serious effort at
understanding.
(B) 	 It is absurd to criticize anyone for being critical.
(C) 	 There is some plausibility to the claim that it is
absurd to criticize anyone for being critical.
(D) 	 Not all assessments people make of one another
will be positive.
(E) 	 There is wisdom behind the injunction against
being judgmental.

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

1	

			 1

1	
19.	 Even those who believe that the art of each age and
culture has its own standards of beauty must admit
that some painters are simply superior to others in the
execution of their artistic visions. But this superiority
must be measured in light of the artist’s purposes, since
the high merits, for example, of Jose Rey Toledo’s
work and his extraordinary artistic skills are not in
doubt, despite the fact that his paintings do not literally
resemble what they represent.
	

The claim that some painters are superior to others in
the execution of their artistic visions plays which one of
the following roles in the argument?
(A) 	 It is a hypothesis that the argument attempts to
refute.
(B) 	 It is a generalization, one sort of objection to
which the argument illustrates by giving an
example.
(C) 	 It is a claim that, according to the argument, is
to be understood in a manner specified by the
conclusion.
(D) 	 It is a claim that the argument derives from
another claim and that it uses to support its
conclusion.
(E) 	 It is a generalization that the argument uses to
justify the relevance of the specific example it
cites.

20.	 A study of rabbits in the 1940s convinced many
biologists that parthenogenesis—reproduction without
fertilization of an egg—sometimes occurs in mammals.
However, the study’s methods have since been shown
to be flawed, and no other studies have succeeded in
demonstrating mammalian parthenogenesis. Thus, since
parthenogenesis is known to occur in a wide variety of
nonmammalian vertebrates, there must be something
about mammalian chromosomes that precludes the
possibility of parthenogenesis.
	

A flaw in the reasoning of the argument is that the
argument
(A) 	 takes for granted that something that has not
been proven to be true is for that reason shown
to be false
(B) 	 infers that a characteristic is shared by all
nonmammalian vertebrate species merely
because it is shared by some nonmammalian
vertebrate species
(C) 	 rules out an explanation of a phenomenon merely
on the grounds that there is another explanation
that can account for the phenomenon
(D) 	 confuses a necessary condition for
parthenogenesis with a sufficient condition for it
(E) 	 assumes that the methods used in a study of one
mammalian species were flawed merely because
the study’s findings cannot be generalized to all
other mammalian species

21.	 Advertiser: Most TV shows depend on funding from
advertisers and would be canceled without such
funding. However, advertisers will not pay to
have their commercials aired during a TV show
unless many people watching the show buy the
advertised products as a result. So if people
generally fail to buy the products advertised
during their favorite shows, these shows will
soon be canceled. Thus, anyone who feels that
a TV show is worth preserving ought to buy the
products advertised during that show.
	

The advertiser’s reasoning most closely conforms to
which one of the following principles?
(A) 	 If a TV show that one feels to be worth
preserving would be canceled unless one took
certain actions, then one ought to take those
actions.
(B) 	 If a TV show would be canceled unless many
people took certain actions, then everyone who
feels that the show is worth preserving ought to
take those actions.
(C) 	 If a TV show is worth preserving, then everyone
should take whatever actions are necessary to
prevent that show from being canceled.
(D) 	 If one feels that a TV show is worth preserving,
then one should take at least some actions to
reduce the likelihood that the show will be
canceled.
(E) 	 If a TV show would be canceled unless many
people took certain actions, then those who feel
most strongly that it is worth preserving should
take those actions.

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

1	

			 1

1	
22.	 Psychologist: It is well known that becoming angry
often induces temporary incidents of high
blood pressure. A recent study further showed,
however, that people who are easily angered are
significantly more likely to have permanently high
blood pressure than are people who have more
tranquil personalities. Coupled with the longestablished fact that those with permanently high
blood pressure are especially likely to have heart
disease, the recent findings indicate that heart
disease can result from psychological factors.
	

Which one of the following would, if true, most weaken
the psychologist’s argument?
(A) 	 Those who are easily angered are less likely to
recover fully from episodes of heart disease
than are other people.
(B) 	 Medication designed to control high blood
pressure can greatly affect the moods of those
who use it.
(C) 	 People with permanently high blood pressure
who have tranquil personalities virtually never
develop heart disease.
(D) 	 Those who discover that they have heart disease
tend to become more easily frustrated by small
difficulties.
(E) 	 The physiological factors that cause permanently
high blood pressure generally make people
quick to anger.

23.	 A professor of business placed a case-study assignment
for her class on her university’s computer network. She
later found out that instead of reading the assignment
on the computer screen, 50 out of the 70 students
printed it out on paper. Thus, it is not the case that
books delivered via computer will make printed books
obsolete.
	

Which one of the following, if true, most strengthens
the argument?
(A) 	 Several colleagues of the professor have found
that, in their non-business courses, several of
their students behave similarly in relation to
assignments placed on the computer network.
(B) 	 Studies consistently show that most computer
users will print reading material that is more
than a few pages in length rather than read it on
the computer screen.
(C) 	 Some people get impaired vision from long
periods of reading printed matter on computer
screens, even if they use high quality computer
screens.
(D) 	 Scanning technology is very poor, causing
books delivered via computer to be full of
errors unless editors carefully read the scanned
versions.
(E) 	 Books on cassette tape have only a small fraction
of the sales of printed versions of the same
books, though sales of videos of books that have
been turned into movies remain strong.

1	

			 1

1	
24.	 Advertisement: Researchers studied a group of people
trying to lose weight and discovered that those
in the group who lost the most weight got more
calories from protein than from carbohydrates and
ate their biggest meal early in the day. So anyone
who follows our diet, which provides more
calories from protein than from anything else and
which requires that breakfast be the biggest meal
of the day, is sure to lose weight.
	

The reasoning in the advertisement is most vulnerable
to criticism on the grounds that the advertisement
overlooks the possibility that
(A) 	 eating foods that derive a majority of their
calories from carbohydrates tends to make one
feel fuller than does eating foods that derive a
majority of their calories from protein
(B) 	 a few of the people in the group studied who lost
significant amounts of weight got nearly all of
their calories from carbohydrates and ate their
biggest meal at night
(C) 	 the people in the group studied who increased
their activity levels lost more weight, on
average, than those who did not, regardless of
whether they got more calories from protein or
from carbohydrates
(D) 	 some people in the group studied lost no weight
yet got more calories from protein than from
carbohydrates and ate their biggest meal early in
the day
(E) 	 people who eat their biggest meal at night tend to
snack more during the day and so tend to take in
more total calories than do people who eat their
biggest meal earlier in the day

25.	 Some twentieth-century art is great art. All great art
involves original ideas, and any art that is not influential
cannot be great art.
	

Each of the following statements follows logically from
the set of statements above EXCEPT:
(A) 	 Some influential art involves original ideas.
(B) 	 Some twentieth-century art involves original
ideas.
(C) 	 Only art that involves original ideas is influential.
(D) 	 Only art that is influential and involves original
ideas is great art.
(E) 	 Some twentieth-century art is influential and
involves original ideas.

S T O P
IF YOU FINISH BEFORE TIME IS CALLED, YOU MAY CHECK YOUR WORK ON THIS SECTION ONLY.
DO NOT WORK ON ANY OTHER SECTION IN THE TEST.

2	

2	 2		
2

2 	
SECTION II
Time—35 minutes
27 Questions

Directions: Each set of questions in this section is based on a single passage or a pair of passages. The questions are to be answered
on the basis of what is stated or implied in the passage or pair of passages. For some of the questions, more than one of the choices
could conceivably answer the question. However, you are to choose the best answer; that is, the response that most accurately and
completely answers the question, and blacken the corresponding space on your answer sheet.
		 Often when a highly skilled and experienced
employee leaves one company to work for another,
there is the potential for a transfer of sensitive
information between competitors. Two basic principles
(5) 	 in such cases appear irreconcilable: the right of the
company to its intellectual property—its proprietary
data and trade secrets—and the right of individuals to
	
seek gainful employment and to make free use of their
	
abilities. Nevertheless, the courts have often tried to
(10) 	 preserve both parties’ legal rights by refusing to
	
prohibit the employee from working for the competitor,
	
but at the same time providing an injunction against
disclosure of any of the former employer’s secrets. It
has been argued that because such measures help
(15) 	 generate suspicions and similar psychological barriers
	
to full and free utilization of abilities in the employee’s
	
new situation, they are hardly effective in upholding
the individual’s rights to free employment decisions.
But it is also doubtful that they are effective in
(20) 	 preserving trade secrets.
		 It is obviously impossible to divest oneself of that
part of one’s expertise that one has acquired from
former employers and coworkers. Nor, in general, can
one selectively refrain from its use, given that it has
(25) 	 become an integral part of one’s total intellectual
capacity. Nevertheless, almost any such information
that is not public knowledge may legitimately be
claimed as corporate property: normal employment
agreements provide for corporate ownership of all
(30) 	 relevant data, including inventions, generated by the
employee in connection with the company’s business.
		 Once an employee takes a position with a
competitor, the trade secrets that have been acquired by
	
that employee may manifest themselves clearly and
(35) 	 consciously. This is what court injunctions seek to
prohibit. But they are far more likely to manifest
themselves subconsciously and inconspicuously—for
example, in one’s daily decisions at the new post, or in
	
the many small contributions one might make to a large
(40) 	 team effort—often in the form of an intuitive sense of
	
what to do or to avoid. Theoretically, an injunction also
	
prohibits such inadvertent “leakage.” However, the
former employer faces the practical problem of
securing evidence of such leakage, for little will
(45) 	 usually be apparent from the public activities of the
	
new employer. And even if the new employee’s
activities appear suspicious, there is the further
problem of distinguishing trade secrets from what may
	
be legitimately asserted as technological skills
(50) 	 developed independently by the employee or already
possessed by the new employer. This is a major
stumbling block in the attempt to protect trade secrets,

since the proprietor has no recourse against others who
	
independently generate the same information. It is
(55) 	 therefore unlikely that an injunction against disclosure
	
of trade secrets to future employers actually prevents
any transfer of information except for the passage of
documents and other concrete embodiments of the
secrets.
1.	 Which one of the following most accurately expresses
the main point of the passage?
	
(A) 	 There are more effective ways than court
injunctions to preserve both a company’s
right to protect its intellectual property and
individuals’ rights to make free use of their
abilities.
(B) 	 Court injunctions must be strengthened if they
are to remain a relevant means of protecting
corporations’ trade secrets.
(C) 	 Enforcement of court injunctions designed to
protect proprietary information is impossible
when employees reveal such information to new
employers.
(D) 	 Court injunctions prohibiting employees from
disclosing former employers’ trade secrets to
new employers probably do not achieve all of
their intended objectives.
(E) 	 The rights of employees to make full use of their
talents and previous training are being seriously
eroded by the prohibitions placed on them
by court injunctions designed to prevent the
transfer of trade secrets.

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

2	

2 	
2.	 Given the passage’s content and tone, which one of
the following statements would most likely be found
elsewhere in a work from which this passage is an
excerpt?
(A) 	 Given the law as it stands, corporations
concerned about preserving trade secrets might
be best served by giving their employees strong
incentives to stay in their current jobs.
(B) 	 While difficult to enforce and interpret,
injunctions are probably the most effective
means of halting the inadvertent transfer of
trade secrets while simultaneously protecting
the rights of employees.
(C) 	 Means of redress must be made available to
companies that suspect, but cannot prove,
that former employees are revealing protected
information to competitors.
(D) 	 Even concrete materials such as computer disks
are so easy to copy and conceal that it will be
a waste of time for courts to try to prevent the
spread of information through physical theft.
(E) 	 The psychological barriers that an injunction can
place on an employee in a new workplace are
inevitably so subtle that they have no effect on
the employee.
3.	 The author’s primary purpose in the passage is to
	
(A) 	 suggest that injunctions against the disclosure
of trade secrets not only create problems for
employees in the workplace, but also are
unable to halt the illicit spread of proprietary
information
(B) 	 suggest that the information contained in
“documents and other concrete embodiments” is
usually so trivial that injunctions do little good
in protecting intellectual property
(C) 	 argue that new methods must be found to address
the delicate balance between corporate and
individual rights
(D) 	 support the position that the concept of
protecting trade secrets is no longer viable in an
age of increasing access to information
(E) 	 argue that injunctions are not necessary for the
protection of trade secrets

2	 2		
2
4.	 The passage provides the most support for which one of
the following assertions?
	
(A) 	 Injunctions should be imposed by the courts only
when there is strong reason to believe that an
employee will reveal proprietary information.
(B) 	 There is apparently no reliable way to protect
both the rights of companies to protect trade
secrets and the rights of employees to seek new
employment.
(C) 	 Employees should not be allowed to take jobs
with their former employers’ competitors when
their new job could compromise trade secrets of
their former employers.
(D) 	 The multiplicity of means for transferring
information in the workplace only increases the
need for injunctions.
(E) 	 Some companies seek injunctions as a means of
punishing employees who take jobs with their
competitors.
5.	 With which one of the following statements regarding
documents and other concrete embodiments mentioned
in line 58 would the author be most likely to agree?
	
(A) 	 While the transfer of such materials would
be damaging, even the seemingly innocuous
contributions of an employee to a competitor
can do more harm in the long run.
(B) 	 Such materials are usually less informative
than what the employee may recollect about a
previous job.
(C) 	 Injunctions against the disclosure of trade secrets
should carefully specify which materials are
included in order to focus on the most damaging
ones.
(D) 	 Large-scale transfer of documents and other
materials cannot be controlled by injunctions.
(E) 	 Such concrete materials lend themselves to
control and identification more readily than do
subtler means of transferring information.
6.	 In the passage, the author makes which one of the
following claims?
	
(A) 	 Injunctions against the disclosure of trade secrets
limit an employee’s chances of being hired by a
competitor.
(B) 	 Measures against the disclosure of trade secrets
are unnecessary except in the case of documents
and other concrete embodiments of the secrets.
(C) 	 Employees who switch jobs to work for a
competitor usually unintentionally violate the
law by doing so.
(D) 	 Employers are not restricted in the tactics they
can use when seeking to secure protected
information from new employees.
(E) 	 What may seem like intellectual theft may in fact
be an example of independent innovation.
GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

2	

2 	
The following passages concern a plant called purple
loosestrife. Passage A is excerpted from a report issued by
a prairie research council; passage B from a journal of
sociology.
Passage A
		 Purple loosestrife (Lythrum salicaria), an
	
aggressive and invasive perennial of Eurasian origin,
arrived with settlers in eastern North America in the
early 1800s and has spread across the continent’s
(5) 	 midlatitude wetlands. The impact of purple loosestrife
	
on native vegetation has been disastrous, with more
than 50 percent of the biomass of some wetland
communities displaced. Monospecific blocks of this
	
weed have maintained themselves for at least 20 years.
(10) 	 Impacts on wildlife have not been well studied,
	
but serious reductions in waterfowl and aquatic
furbearer productivity have been observed. In
addition, several endangered species of vertebrates
	
are threatened with further degradation of their
(15) 	 breeding habitats. Although purple loosestrife can
invade relatively undisturbed habitats, the spread and
dominance of this weed have been greatly accelerated
in disturbed habitats. While digging out the plants
	
can temporarily halt their spread, there has been little
(20) 	 research on long-term purple loosestrife control.
Glyphosate has been used successfully, but no
measure of the impact of this herbicide on native
plant communities has been made.
		 With the spread of purple loosestrife growing
(25) 	 exponentially, some form of integrated control is
needed. At present, coping with purple loosestrife
hinges on early detection of the weed’s arrival in
areas, which allows local eradication to be carried out
	
with minimum damage to the native plant community.
Passage B
(30) 		 The war on purple loosestrife is apparently
conducted on behalf of nature, an attempt to liberate
the biotic community from the tyrannical influence of
	
a life-destroying invasive weed. Indeed, purple
loosestrife control is portrayed by its practitioners as
(35) 	 an environmental initiative intended to save nature
rather than control it. Accordingly, the purple
loosestrife literature, scientific and otherwise,
dutifully discusses the impacts of the weed on
endangered species-and on threatened biodiversity
(40) 	 more generally. Purple loosestrife is a pollution,
according to the scientific community, and all of
nature suffers under its pervasive influence.
		 Regardless of the perceived and actual ecological
effects of the purple invader, it is apparent that
(45) 	 popular pollution ideologies have been extended into
	
the wetlands of North America. Consequently, the
	
scientific effort to liberate nature from purple
loosestrife has failed to decouple itself from its
philosophical origin as an instrument to control nature
(50) 	 to the satisfaction of human desires. Birds,
particularly game birds and waterfowl, provide the
bulk of the justification for loosestrife management.
However, no bird species other than the canvasback
has been identified in the literature as endangered by

2	 2		
2
(55) 	 purple loosestrife. The impact of purple loosestrife on
	
furbearing mammals is discussed at great length,
though none of the species highlighted (muskrat,
mink) can be considered threatened in North America.
	
What is threatened by purple loosestrife is the
(60) 	 economics of exploiting such preferred species and
	
the millions of dollars that will be lost to the
economies of the United States and Canada from
reduced hunting, trapping, and recreation revenues
due to a decline in the production of the wetland
(65) 	 resource.
7.	 Both passages explicitly mention which one of the
following?
	
(A) 	 furbearing animals
(B) 	 glyphosate
(C) 	 the threat purple loosestrife poses to economies
(D) 	 popular pollution ideologies
(E) 	 literature on purple loosestrife control
8.	 Each of the passages contains information sufficient to
answer which one of the following questions?
	
(A) 	 Approximately how long ago did purple
loosestrife arrive in North America?
(B) 	 Is there much literature discussing the potential
benefit that hunters might derive from purple
loosestrife management?
(C) 	 What is an issue regarding purple loosestrife
management on which both hunters and farmers
agree?
(D) 	 Is the canvasback threatened with extinction due
to the spread of purple loosestrife?
(E) 	 What is a type of terrain that is affected in
at least some parts of North America by the
presence of purple loosestrife?
9.	 It can be inferred that the authors would be most likely
to disagree about which one of the following?
	
(A) 	 Purple loosestrife spreads more quickly in
disturbed habitats than in undisturbed habitats.
(B) 	 The threat posed by purple loosestrife to local
aquatic furbearer populations is serious.
(C) 	 Most people who advocate that eradication
measures be taken to control purple loosestrife
are not genuine in their concern for the
environment.
(D) 	 The size of the biomass that has been displaced
by purple loosestrife is larger than is generally
thought.
(E) 	 Measures should be taken to prevent other
non-native plant species from invading North
America.

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

2	

2 	
10.	 Which one of the following most accurately describes
the attitude expressed by the author of passage B toward
the overall argument represented by passage A?
	
(A) 	 enthusiastic agreement
(B) 	 cautious agreement
(C) 	 pure neutrality
(D) 	 general ambivalence
(E) 	 pointed skepticism
11.	 It can be inferred that both authors would be most likely
to agree with which one of the following statements
regarding purple loosestrife?
	
(A) 	 As it increases in North America, some wildlife
populations tend to decrease.
(B) 	 Its establishment in North America has had a
disastrous effect on native North American
wetland vegetation in certain regions.
(C) 	 It is very difficult to control effectively with
herbicides.
(D) 	 Its introduction into North America was a great
ecological blunder.
(E) 	 When it is eliminated from a given area, it tends
to return to that area fairly quickly.

2	 2		
2
12.	 Which one of the following is true about the
relationship between the two passages?
	
(A) 	 Passage A presents evidence that directly
counters claims made in passage B.
(B) 	 Passage B assumes what passage A explicitly
argues for.
(C) 	 Passage B displays an awareness of the
arguments touched on in passage A, but not vice
versa.
(D) 	 Passage B advocates a policy that passage A
rejects.
(E) 	 Passage A downplays the seriousness of claims
made in passage B.
13.	 Which one of the following, if true, would cast doubt
on the argument in passage B but bolster the argument
in passage A?
	
(A) 	 Localized population reduction is often a
precursor to widespread endangerment of a
species.
(B) 	 Purple loosestrife was barely noticed in North
America before the advent of suburban sprawl
in the 1950s.
(C) 	 The amount by which overall hunting, trapping,
and recreation revenues would be reduced as a
result of the extinction of one or more species
threatened by purple loosestrife represents a
significant portion of those revenues.
(D) 	 Some environmentalists who advocate taking
measures to eradicate purple loosestrife view
such measures as a means of controlling nature.
(E) 	 Purple loosestrife has never become a problem in
its native habitat, even though no effort has been
made to eradicate it there.
			

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

2	

2 	
		 With their recognition of Maxine Hong Kingston
	
as a major literary figure, some critics have suggested
that her works have been produced almost ex nihilo,
saying that they lack a large traceable body of direct
(5)	 literary antecedents especially within the Chinese
American heritage in which her work is embedded. But
these critics, who have examined only the development
of written texts, the most visible signs of a culture’s
narrative production, have overlooked Kingston’s
(10) 	 connection to the long Chinese tradition of a highly
developed genre of song and spoken narrative known as
“talk-story” (gong gu tsai).
		
Traditionally performed in the dialects of various
ethnic enclaves, talk-story has been maintained within
(15) 	 the confines of the family and has rarely surfaced into
print. The tradition dates back to Sung dynasty
	
(AD. 970-1279) storytellers in China, and in the
	
United States it is continually revitalized by an
overlapping sequence of immigration from China.
(20) 	 Thus, Chinese immigrants to the U.S. had a fully
established, sophisticated oral culture, already ancient
and capable of producing masterpieces, by the time they
began arriving in the early nineteenth century.
	
This transplanted oral heritage simply embraced new
(25) 	 subject matter or new forms of Western discourse, as in
the case of Kingston’s adaptations written in English. 	
	 Kingston herself believes that as a literary artist she is
one in a long line of performers shaping a
	
recalcitrant history into talk-story form. She
(30) 	 distinguishes her “thematic” storytelling memory
processes, which sift and reconstruct the essential 	
elements of personally remembered stories, from the
memory processes of a print-oriented culture that
emphasizes the retention of precise sequences of
(35) 	 words. Nor does the entry of print into the storytelling
process substantially change her notion of the character
of oral tradition. For Kingston, “writer” is synonymous
with “singer” or “performer” in the ancient sense of
privileged keeper, transmitter, and creator of stories
(40) 	 whose current stage of development can be frozen in
print, but which continue to grow both around and
	
from that frozen text.
		 Kingston’s participation in the tradition of
	
talk-story is evidenced in her book China Men, which
(45) 	 utilizes forms typical of that genre and common to most
oral cultures including: a fixed “grammar” of
	
repetitive themes; a spectrum of stock characters;
symmetrical structures, including balanced oppositions
(verbal or physical contests, antithetical characters,
(50) 	 dialectical discourse such as question-answer forms
	
and riddles); and repetition. In China Men, Kingston
also succeeds in investing idiomatic English with the
allusive texture and oral-aural qualities of the Chinese
language, a language rich in aural and visual puns,
(55) 	 making her work a written form of talk-story. 		
		

2	 2		
2
14. 	Which one of the following most accurately states the 	
main point of the passage?
	
(A) 	 Despite some critics’ comments, Kingston’s
writings have significant Chinese American
antecedents, which can be found in the
traditional oral narrative form known as talkstory.
(B) 	 Analysis of Kingston’s writings, especially
China Men, supports her belief that literary
artists can be performers who continue to
reconstruct their stories even after they have 	
been frozen in print.
(C) 	 An understanding of Kingston’s work and of
Chinese American writers in general reveals that
critics of ethnic literatures in the United States
have been mistaken in examining only written
texts. 	
(D) 	 Throughout her writings Kingston uses
techniques typical of the talk-story genre,
especially the retention of certain aspects of
Chinese speech in the written English text.
(E) 	 The writings of Kingston have rekindled an
interest in talk-story, which dates back to the
Sung dynasty, and was extended to the United
States with the arrival of Chinese immigrants in
the nineteenth century.
			
15. 	Which one of the following can be most reasonably
inferred from the passage?
(A) 	 In the last few years, written forms of talk-story
have appeared in Chinese as often as they have
in English. 	
(B) 	 Until very recently, scholars have held that oral
storytelling in Chinese ethnic enclaves was a
unique oral tradition.
(C) 	 Talk-story has developed in the United States
through a process of combining Chinese,
Chinese American, and other oral storytelling
forms. 	
(D) 	 Chinese American talk-story relies upon memory
processes that do not emphasize the retention of
precise sequences of words.
(E) 	 The connection between certain aspects of
Kingston’s work and talk-story is argued
by some critics to be rather tenuous and
questionable. 	
			

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

2	

2 	
16.	 It can be inferred from the passage that the author uses
the phrase “personally remembered stories” (line 32)
primarily to refer to
(A) 	 a literary genre of first-person storytelling
(B) 	 a thematically organized personal narrative of
one’s own past
(C) 	 partially idiosyncratic memories of narratives
(D) 	 the retention in memory of precise sequences of
words
(E) 	 easily identifiable thematic issues in literature
17.	 In which one of the following is the use of cotton fibers
or cotton cloth most analogous to Kingston’s use of the
English language as described in lines 51-55?
(A) 	 Scraps of plain cotton cloth are used to create a
multicolored quilt.
(B) 	 The surface texture of woolen cloth is simulated
in a piece of cotton cloth by a special process of
weaving.
(C) 	 Because of its texture, cotton cloth is used for
a certain type of clothes for which linen is
inappropriate.
(D) 	 In making a piece of cloth, cotton fiber is
substituted for linen because of the roughly
similar texture of the two materials.
(E) 	 Because of their somewhat similar textures,
cotton and linen fibers are woven together in a
piece of cloth to achieve a savings in price over
a pure linen cloth.
18.	 The passage most clearly suggests that Kingston
believes which one of the following about at least some
of the stories contained in her writings?
	
(A) 	 Since they are intimately tied to the nature of the
Chinese language, they can be approximated,
but not adequately expressed, in English.
(B) 	 They should be thought of primarily as ethnic
literature and evaluated accordingly by critics.
(C) 	 They will likely be retold and altered to some
extent in the process.
(D) 	 Chinese American history is best chronicled by
traditional talk-story.
(E) 	 Their significance and beauty cannot be captured
at all in written texts.

2	 2		
2
19.	 The author’s argument in the passage would be most
weakened if which one of the following were true?
(A) Numerous writers in the United States have been
influenced by oral traditions.
(B) 	 Most Chinese American writers’ work is very
different from Kingston’s.
(C) 	 Native American storytellers use narrative
devices similar to those used in talk-story.
(D) 	 China Men is for the most part atypical of
Kingston’s literary works.
(E) 	 Literary critics generally appreciate the
authenticity of Kingston’s work.
20.	 The author’s specific purpose in detailing typical talkstory forms (lines 43-51) is to
(A) 	 show why Kingston’s book China Men
establishes her as a major literary figure
(B) 	 support the claim that Kingston’s use of typically
oral techniques makes her work a part of the
talk-story tradition
(C) 	 dispute the critics’ view that Chinese American
literature lacks literary antecedents
(D) 	 argue for Kingston’s view that the literary artist
is at best a “privileged keeper” of stories
(E) 	 provide an alternative to certain critics’ view that
Kingston’s work should be judged primarily as
literature
21.	 Which one of the following most accurately identifies
the attitude shown by the author in the passage toward
talk-story?
	
(A) 	 scholarly appreciation for its longstanding
artistic sophistication
(B) 	 mild disappointment that it has not distinguished
itself from other oral traditions
(C) 	 tentative approval of its resistance to critical
evaluations
(D) 	 clear respect for the diversity of its ancient
sources and cultural derivations
(E) 	 open admiration for the way it uses song to
express narrative

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

2	

2 	
		 In economics, the term “speculative bubble”
	
refers to a large upward move in an asset’s price
	
driven not by the asset’s fundamentals-that is, by 	
the earnings derivable from the asset-but rather by
(5) 	 mere speculation that someone else will be willing to
	
pay a higher price for it. The price increase is then
followed by a dramatic decline in price, due to a loss
	
in confidence that the price will continue to rise, and
the “bubble” is said to have burst. According to
(10) 	 Charles Mackay’s classic nineteenth-century account,
the seventeenth-century Dutch tulip market provides
an example of a speculative bubble. But the
	
economist Peter Garber challenges Mackay’s view,
arguing that there is no evidence that the Dutch tulip
(15) 	 market really involved a speculative bubble.
		 By the seventeenth century, the Netherlands had
become a center of cultivation and development of
	
new tulip varieties, and a market had developed in
which rare varieties of bulbs sold at high prices. For
(20) 	 example, a Semper Augustus bulb sold in 1625 for an
	
amount of gold worth about U.S.$ll,000 in 1999.
Common bulb varieties, on the other hand, sold for
very low prices. According to Mackay, by 1636 rapid
price rises attracted speculators, and prices of many
(25) 	 varieties surged upward from November 1636 through
January 1637. Mackay further states that in February
1637 prices suddenly collapsed; bulbs could not be
sold at 10 percent of their peak values. By 1739, the
prices of all the most prized kinds of bulbs had fallen
(30) 	 to no more than one two-hundredth of 1 percent of
Semper Augustus’s peak price.
		 Garber acknowledges that bulb prices increased
dramatically from 1636 to 1637 and eventually
	
reached very low levels. But he argues that this
(35) 	 episode should not be described as a speculative
bubble, for the increase and eventual decline in bulb
prices can be explained in terms of the fundamentals.
Garber argues that a standard pricing pattern occurs
	
for new varieties of flowers. When a particularly
(40) 	 prized variety is developed, its original bulb sells for
a high price. Thus, the dramatic rise in the price of
some original tulip bulbs could have resulted as tulips
in general, and certain varieties in particular, became
fashionable. However, as the prized bulbs become
(45) 	 more readily available through reproduction from the
original bulb, their price falls rapidly; after less than
	
30 years, bulbs sell at reproduction cost. But this
	
does not mean that the high prices of original bulbs
	
are irrational, for earnings derivable from the millions
(50) 	 of bulbs descendent from the original bulbs can be
very high, even if each individual descendent bulb
commands a very low price. Given that an original
bulb can generate a reasonable return on investment
even if the price of descendent bulbs decreases
(55) 	 dramatically, a rapid rise and eventual fall of tulip
	
bulb prices need not indicate a speculative bubble.

2	 2		
2
22.	 Which one of the following most accurately expresses
the main point of the passage?
	
(A) 	 The seventeenth-century Dutch tulip market is
widely but mistakenly believed by economists
to provide an example of a speculative bubble.
(B) 	 Mackay did not accurately assess the earnings
that could be derived from rare and expensive
seventeenth-century Dutch tulip bulbs.
(C) 	 A speculative bubble occurs whenever the price
of an asset increases substantially followed by a
rapid and dramatic decline.
(D) 	 Garber argues that Mackay’s classic account of
the seventeenth-century Dutch tulip market as
a speculative bubble is not supported by the
evidence.
(E) 	 A tulip bulb can generate a reasonable return on
investment even if the price starts very high and
decreases dramatically.
23.	 Given Garber’s account of the seventeenth-century
Dutch tulip market, which one of the following is most
analogous to someone who bought a tulip bulb of a
certain variety in that market at a very high price, only
to sell a bulb of that variety at a much lower price?
	
(A) 	 someone who, after learning that many others
had withdrawn their applications for a particular
job, applied for the job in the belief that there
would be less competition for it
(B) 	 an art dealer who, after paying a very high price
for a new painting, sells it at a very low price
because it is now considered to be an inferior
work
(C) 	 someone who, after buying a box of rare
motorcycle parts at a very high price, is forced
to sell them at a much lower price because of
the sudden availability of cheap substitute parts
(D) 	 a publisher who pays an extremely high price
for a new novel only to sell copies at a price
affordable to nearly everyone
(E) 	 an airline that, after selling most of the tickets for
seats on a plane at a very high price, must sell
the remaining tickets at a very low price

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

2	

2	 2		
2

2 	
24.	 The passage most strongly supports the inference that
Garber would agree with which one of the following
statements?
	
(A) 	 If speculative bubbles occur at all, they occur
very rarely.
(B) 	 Many of the owners of high-priced original tulip
bulbs could have expected to at least recoup
their original investments from sales of the
many bulbs propagated from the original bulbs.
(C) 	 If there is not a speculative bubble in a market,
then the level of prices in that market is not
irrational.
(D) 	 Most people who invested in Dutch tulip bulbs in
the seventeenth century were generally rational
in all their investments.
(E) 	 Mackay mistakenly infers from the fact that
tulip prices dropped rapidly that the very low
prices that the bulbs eventually sold for were
irrational.
25.	 The passage states that Mackay claimed which one of
the following?
	
(A) 	 The rapid rise in price of Dutch tulip bulbs was
not due to the fashionability of the flowers they
produced.
(B) 	 The prices of certain varieties of Dutch tulip
bulbs during the seventeenth century were, at
least for a time, determined by speculation.
(C) 	 The Netherlands was the only center of
cultivation and development of new tulip
varieties in the seventeenth century.
(D) 	 The very high prices of bulbs in the seventeenthcentury Dutch tulip market were not irrational.
(E) 	 Buyers of rare and very expensive Dutch tulip
bulbs were ultimately able to derive earnings
from bulbs descendent from the original bulbs.

26.	 The main purpose of the second paragraph is to
	
(A) 	 present the facts that are accepted by all experts
in the field
(B) 	 identify the mistake that one scholar alleges
another scholar made
(C) 	 explain the basis on which one scholar makes an
inference with which another scholar disagrees
(D) 	 undermine the case that one scholar makes for
the claim with which another scholar disagrees
(E) 	 outline the factual errors that led one scholar to
draw the inference that he drew
27.	 The phrase “standard pricing pattern” as used in line 38
most nearly means a pricing pattern
	
(A) 	 against which other pricing patterns are to be
measured
(B) 	 that conforms to a commonly agreed-upon
criterion
(C) 	 that is merely acceptable
(D) 	 that regularly recurs in certain types of cases
(E) 	 that serves as an exemplar

S T O P
IF YOU FINISH BEFORE TIME IS CALLED, YOU MAY CHECK YOUR WORK ON THIS SECTION ONLY.
DO NOT WORK ON ANY OTHER SECTION IN THE TEST.

3	

3	 3	 3		
3	
SECTION III
Time—35 minutes
25 Questions
Directions: The questions in this section are based on the reasoning contained in brief statements or passages. For some questions,
more than one of the choices could conceivably answer the question. However, you are to choose the best answer; that is, the response
that most accurately and completely answers the question. You should not make assumptions that are by commonsense standards
implausible, superfluous, or incompatible with the passage. After you have chosen the best answer, blacken the corresponding space
on your answer sheet.
1.	 Aristophanes’ play The Clouds, which was written
when the philosopher Socrates was in his mid-forties,
portrays Socrates as an atheistic philosopher primarily
concerned with issues in natural science. The only
other surviving portrayals of Socrates were written
after Socrates’ death at age 70. They portrayed Socrates
as having a religious dimension and a strong focus on
ethical issues.
	

Which one of the following, if true, would most help to
resolve the apparent discrepancy between Aristophanes’
portrayal of Socrates and the other surviving portrayals?
(A) 	 Aristophanes’ portrayal of Socrates in The
Clouds was unflattering, whereas the other
portrayals were very flattering.
(B) 	 Socrates’ philosophical views and interests
changed sometime after his mid-forties.
(C) 	 Most of the philosophers who lived before
Socrates were primarily concerned with natural
science.
(D) 	 Socrates was a much more controversial figure
in the years before his death than he was in his
mid-forties.
(E) 	 Socrates had an influence on many subsequent
philosophers who were primarily concerned
with natural science.

2.	 Board member: The J Foundation, a philanthropic
organization, gave you this grant on the condition
that your resulting work not contain any material
detrimental to the J Foundation’s reputation. But
your resulting work never mentions any of the
laudable achievements of our foundation. Hence
your work fails to meet the conditions under
which the grant was made.
	

The reasoning in the board member’s argument is
vulnerable to criticism on the grounds that the argument
(A) 	 takes for granted that a work that never mentions
any laudable achievements cannot be of high
intellectual value
(B) 	 confuses a condition necessary for the receipt of
a grant with a condition sufficient for the receipt
of a grant
(C) 	 presumes, without providing justification, that
a work that does not mention a foundation’s
laudable achievements is harmful to that
foundation’s reputation
(D) 	 fails to consider that recipients of a grant usually
strive to meet a foundation’s conditions
(E) 	 fails to consider the possibility that the work that
was produced with the aid of the grant may have
met all conditions other than avoiding detriment
to the J Foundation’s reputation

3.	 Psychiatrist: Breaking any habit is difficult, especially
when it involves an addictive substance. People
who break a habit are more likely to be motivated
by immediate concerns than by long-term ones.
Therefore, people who succeed in breaking their
addiction to smoking cigarettes are more likely
to be motivated by the social pressure against
smoking—which is an immediate concern—than
by health concerns, since ________.	
	

The conclusion of the psychiatrist’s argument is most
strongly supported if which one of the following
completes the argument?
(A) 	 a habit that involves an addictive substance is
likely to pose a greater health threat than a habit
that does not involve any addictive substance
(B) 	 for most people who successfully quit smoking,
smoking does not create an immediate health
concern at the time they quit
(C) 	 some courses of action that exacerbate health
concerns can also relieve social pressure
(D) 	 most people who succeed in quitting smoking
succeed only after several attempts
(E) 	 everyone who succeeds in quitting smoking is
motivated either by social pressure or by health
concerns

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

3	

3	 3	 3		
3	
4.	 Cassie: In order to improve the quality of customer
service provided by our real estate agency, we
should reduce client loads—the number of clients
each agent is expected to serve at one time.
	

Melvin: Although smaller client loads are desirable,
reducing client loads at our agency is simply not
feasible. We already find it very difficult to recruit
enough qualified agents; recruiting even more
agents, which would be necessary in order to
reduce client loads, is out of the question.

	

Of the following, which one, if true, is the logically
strongest counter that Cassie can make to Melvin’s
argument?
(A) 	 Since reducing client loads would improve
working conditions for agents, reducing client
loads would help recruit additional qualified
agents to the real estate agency.
(B) 	 Many of the real estate agency’s current clients
have expressed strong support for efforts to
reduce client loads.
(C) 	 Several recently conducted studies of real estate
agencies have shown that small client loads
are strongly correlated with high customer
satisfaction ratings.
(D) 	 Hiring extra support staff for the real estate
agency’s main office would have many of the
same beneficial effects as reducing client loads.
(E) 	 Over the last several years, it has become
increasingly challenging for the real estate
agency to recruit enough qualified agents just to
maintain current client loads.

6.	 In her recent book a psychologist described several
cases that exhibit the following pattern: A child, denied
something by its parent, initiates problematic behavior
such as screaming; the behavior escalates until finally
the exasperated parent acquiesces to the child’s demand.
At this point the child, having obtained the desired
goal, stops the problematic behavior, to the parent’s
relief. This self-reinforcing pattern of misbehavior and
accommodation is repeated with steadily increasing
levels of misbehavior by the child.
	

(A) 	 A child can develop problematic behavior
patterns as a result of getting what it wants.
(B) 	 A child and parent can mutually influence each
other’s behavior.
(C) 	 Parents, by their choices, can inadvertently
increase their child’s level of misbehavior.
(D) 	 A child can unintentionally influence a parent’s
behavior in ways contrary to the child’s
intended goals.
(E) 	 A child can get what it wants by doing what its
parent doesn’t want it to do.
7.	 Scientist: In our study, chemical R did not cause cancer
in laboratory rats. But we cannot conclude from
this that chemical R is safe for humans. After all,
many substances known to be carcinogenic to
humans cause no cancer in rats; this is probably
because some carcinogens cause cancer only via
long-term exposure and rats are short lived.
	

5.	 The star-nosed mole has a nose that ends in a pair of
several-pointed stars, or tentacles that are crucial for
hunting, as moles are poor-sighted. These tentacles
contain receptors that detect electric fields produced by
other animals, enabling the moles to detect and catch
suitable prey such as worms and insects.
	

Which one of the following is most strongly supported
by the information above?
(A) 	 Both worms and insects produce electric fields.
(B) 	 The star-nosed mole does not rely at all on its
eyesight for survival.
(C) 	 The star-nosed mole does not rely at all on its
sense of smell when hunting.
(D) 	 Only animals that hunt have noses with tentacles
that detect electric fields.
(E) 	 The star-nosed mole does not produce an electric
field.

The cases described by the psychologist illustrate each
of the following generalizations EXCEPT:

Which one of the following most precisely describes the
role played in the scientist’s argument by the statement
that chemical R did not cause cancer in laboratory rats?
(A) 	 It is cited as evidence against the conclusion that
chemical R is safe for humans.
(B) 	 It is advanced to support the contention that test
results obtained from laboratory rats cannot be
extrapolated to humans.
(C) 	 It illustrates the claim that rats are too short
lived to be suitable as test subjects for the
carcinogenic properties of substances to which
humans are chronically exposed.
(D) 	 It is used as evidence to support the hypothesis
that chemical R causes cancer in humans via
long-term exposure.
(E) 	 It is cited as being insufficient to support the
conclusion that chemical R is safe for humans.

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

3	

3	 3	 3		
3	
8.	 Department store manager: There is absolutely no
reason to offer our customers free gift wrapping
again this holiday season. If most customers take
the offer, it will be expensive and time-consuming
for us. On the other hand, if only a few customers
want it, there is no advantage in offering it.

10.	 Lawyer: This witness acknowledges being present at
the restaurant and watching when my client, a
famous television personality, was assaulted. Yet
the witness claims to recognize the assailant, but
not my famous client. Therefore, the witness’s
testimony should be excluded.

	

	

Which one of the following is an assumption required
by the department store manager’s argument?
(A)	
(B)	
(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

Gift wrapping would cost the store more during
this holiday season than in previous holiday
seasons.
Anything that slows down shoppers during the
holiday season costs the store money.
It would be to the store’s advantage to charge
customers for gift wrapping services.
It would be expensive to inform customers about
the free gift wrapping service.
Either few customers would want free gift
wrapping or most customers would want it.

9.	 Among people who have a history of chronic trouble
falling asleep, some rely only on sleeping pills to
help them fall asleep, and others practice behavior
modification techniques and do not take sleeping
pills. Those who rely only on behavior modification
fall asleep more quickly than do those who rely only
on sleeping pills, so behavior modification is more
effective than are sleeping pills in helping people to fall
asleep.
	

Which one of the following, if true, most weakens the
argument?
(A) 	 People who do not take sleeping pills spend at
least as many total hours asleep each night as do
the people who take sleeping pills.
(B) 	 Most people who have trouble falling asleep and
who use behavior modification techniques fall
asleep more slowly than do most people who
have no trouble falling asleep.
(C) 	 Many people who use only behavior
modification techniques to help them fall asleep
have never used sleeping pills.
(D) 	 The people who are the most likely to take
sleeping pills rather than practice behavior
modification techniques are those who have
previously had the most trouble falling asleep.
(E) 	 The people who are the most likely to practice
behavior modification techniques rather than
take sleeping pills are those who prefer not to
use drugs if other treatments are available.

The lawyer’s conclusion follows logically if which one
of the following is assumed?
(A)	
(B)	
(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

If a witness claims to recognize both parties
involved in an assault, then the witness’s
testimony should be included.
There are other witnesses who can identify the
lawyer’s client as present during the assault.
It is impossible to determine whether the witness
actually recognized the assailant.
The testimony of a witness to an assault should
be included only if the witness claims to
recognize both parties involved in the assault.
It is unlikely that anyone would fail to recognize
the lawyer’s client.

11.	 Biologist: Many paleontologists have suggested that the
difficulty of adapting to ice ages was responsible
for the evolution of the human brain. But this
suggestion must be rejected, for most other animal
species adapted to ice ages with no evolutionary
changes to their brains.
	

The biologist’s argument is most vulnerable to criticism
on which one of the following grounds?
(A) 	 It fails to address adequately the possibility that
even if a condition is sufficient to produce an
effect in a species, it may not be necessary to
produce that effect in that species.
(B) 	 It fails to address adequately the possibility that
a condition can produce a change in a species
even if it does not produce that change in other
species.
(C) 	 It overlooks the possibility that a condition that
is needed to produce a change in one species is
not needed to produce a similar change in other
species.
(D) 	 It presumes without warrant that human beings
were presented with greater difficulties during
ice ages than were individuals of most other
species.
(E) 	 It takes for granted that, if a condition coincided
with the emergence of a certain phenomenon,
that condition must have been causally
responsible for the phenomenon.

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

3	

3	 3	 3		
3	
12.	 The total number of book titles published annually in
North America has approximately quadrupled since
television first became available. Retail sales of new
titles, as measured in copies, increased rapidly in the
early days of television, though the rate of increase has
slowed in recent years. Library circulation has been flat
or declining in recent years.
	

Which one of the following is most strongly supported
by the information above?
(A) 	 Television has, over the years, brought about a
reduction in the amount of per capita reading in
North America.
(B) 	 The introduction of television usually brings
about a decrease in library use.
(C) 	 Book publishers in North America now sell
fewer copies per title than they sold in the early
days of television.
(D) 	 The availability of television does not always
cause a decline in the annual number of book
titles published or in the number of books sold.
(E) 	 The introduction of television expanded the
market for books in North America.

13.	 Botanist: It has long been believed that people with
children or pets should keep poinsettia plants
out of their homes. Although this belief has
been encouraged by child-rearing books, which
commonly list poinsettias as poisonous and
therefore dangerous, it is mistaken. Our research
has shown, conclusively, that poinsettias pose no
risk to children or pets.
	

Which one of the following most accurately expresses
the conclusion drawn in the botanist’s argument?
(A) 	 Child-rearing books should encourage people
with children to put poinsettias in their homes.
(B) 	 Poinsettias are not dangerously poisonous.
(C) 	 According to many child-rearing books,
poinsettias are dangerous.
(D) 	 The belief that households with children or pets
should not have poinsettias is mistaken.
(E) 	 Poinsettias pose no risk to children or pets.

14.	 Archaeologist: An ancient stone building at our
excavation site was composed of three kinds of
stone—quartz, granite, and limestone. Of these,
only limestone occurs naturally in the area.
Most of the buildings at the site from the same
time period had limestone as their only stone
component, and most were human dwellings.
Therefore, the building we are studying probably
was not a dwelling.
	

Which one of the following, if true, would most
strengthen the archaeologist’s reasoning?
(A) 	 Most of the buildings that were used as dwellings
at the site were made, at least in part, of
limestone.
(B) 	 Most of the buildings at the site that were not
dwellings were made, at least in part, from
types of stone that do not occur naturally in the
area.
(C) 	 Most of the buildings that were built from stones
not naturally occurring in the area were not built
with both quartz and granite.
(D) 	 Most of the buildings at the site were used as
dwellings.
(E) 	 No quartz has been discovered on the site other
than that found in the building being studied.

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

3	

3	 3	 3		
3	
15.	 Theodore will be able to file his tax return on time only
in the event that he has an accountant prepare his tax
return and the accountant does not ask Theodore for
any additional documentation of his business expenses.
If he does have an accountant prepare his return, the
accountant will necessarily ask Theodore to provide this
additional documentation. Therefore, Theodore will not
be able to file on time.

16.	 When a threat to life is common, as are automobile and
industrial accidents, only unusual instances tend to be
prominently reported by the news media. Instances of
rare threats, such as product tampering, however, are
seen as news by reporters and are universally reported
in featured stories. People in general tend to estimate
the risk of various threats by how frequently those
threats come to their attention.

	

	

The pattern of reasoning in which one of the following
arguments most closely parallels the pattern of
reasoning in the argument above?
(A)	

(B)	

(C)	

(D)	

(E)	

Given the demands of Timothy’s job, his next
free evening will occur next Friday. Since he
spent a lot of money on his last evening out,
he will probably decide to spend his next free
evening at home. Therefore, Timothy will
probably be at home next Friday evening.
Tovah cannot attend the concert next week if she
is away on business. If she misses that concert,
she will not have another opportunity to attend
a concert this month. Since she will be away
on business, Tovah will not be able to attend a
concert this month.
Mark’s children will not be content this weekend
unless he lets them play video games some
of the time. Mark will let them play video
games, but only at times when he has no other
activities planned. Therefore, unless Mark
and his children take a break from planned
activities, Mark’s children will not be content
this weekend.
If Teresa is not seated in first class on her airline
flight, she will be seated in business class.
Therefore, since she cannot be seated in first
class on that flight, she will necessarily be
seated in business class.
Susannah will have a relaxing vacation only if
her children behave especially well and she
does not start to suspect that they are planning
some mischief. Since she will certainly start to
suspect that they are planning some mischief
if they behave especially well, Susannah’s
vacation cannot possibly be relaxing.

If the statements above are true, which one of the
following is most strongly supported on the basis of
them?
(A)	
(B)	
(C)	

(D)	
(E)	

Whether governmental action will be taken to
lessen a common risk depends primarily on the
prominence given to the risk by the news media.
People tend to magnify the risk of a threat if the
threat seems particularly dreadful or if those
who would be affected have no control over it.
Those who get their information primarily from
the news media tend to overestimate the risk
of uncommon threats relative to the risk of
common threats.
Reporters tend not to seek out information about
long-range future threats but to concentrate their
attention on the immediate past and future.
The resources that are spent on avoiding product
tampering are greater than the resources that
are spent on avoiding threats that stem from the
weather.

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

3	

3	 3	 3		
3	
17.	 Real estate agent: Upon selling a home, the sellers are
legally entitled to remove any items that are not
permanent fixtures. Legally, large appliances like
dishwashers are not permanent fixtures. However,
since many prospective buyers of the home are
likely to assume that large appliances in the home
would be included with its purchase, sellers who
will be keeping the appliances are morally obliged
either to remove them before showing the home or
to indicate in some other way that the appliances
are not included.
	

18.	 Many parents rigorously organize their children’s
activities during playtime, thinking that doing so will
enhance their children’s cognitive development. But
this belief is incorrect. To thoroughly structure a child’s
playtime and expect this to produce a creative and
resourceful child would be like expecting a good novel
to be produced by someone who was told exactly what
the plot and characters must be.
	

(A) 	 It takes for granted that if something is conducive
to a certain goal it cannot also be conducive to
some other goal.
(B) 	 It overlooks the possibility that many children
enjoy rigorously organized playtime.
(C) 	 It takes a necessary condition for something’s
enhancing a child’s creativity and
resourcefulness to be a sufficient condition for
its doing so.
(D) 	 It fails to consider the possibility that being able
to write a good novel requires something more
than creativity and resourcefulness.
(E) 	 It fails to consider the possibility that something
could enhance a child’s overall cognitive
development without enhancing the child’s
creativity and resourcefulness.

Which one of the following principles, if valid, most
helps to justify the real estate agent’s argumentation?
(A) 	 If a home’s sellers will be keeping any
belongings that prospective buyers of the home
might assume would be included with the
purchase of the home, the sellers are morally
obliged to indicate clearly that those belongings
are not included.
(B) 	 A home’s sellers are morally obliged to ensure
that prospective buyers of the home do not
assume that any large appliances are permanent
fixtures in the home.
(C) 	 A home’s sellers are morally obliged to include
with the sale of the home at least some of the
appliances that are not permanent fixtures
but were in the home when it was shown to
prospective buyers.
(D) 	 A home’s sellers are morally obliged not to
deliberately mislead any prospective buyers of
their home about which belongings are included
with the sale of the home and which are not.
(E) 	 If a home’s sellers have indicated in some way
that a large appliance is included with the
home’s purchase, then they are morally obliged
not to remove that appliance after showing the
home.

The argument is most vulnerable to criticism on which
one of the following grounds?

19.	 Bureaucrat: The primary, constant goal of an ideal
bureaucracy is to define and classify all possible
problems and set out regulations regarding each
eventuality. Also, an ideal bureaucracy provides an
appeal procedure for any complaint. If a complaint
reveals an unanticipated problem, the regulations
are expanded to cover the new issue, and for this
reason an ideal bureaucracy will have an everexpanding system of regulations.
	

Which one of the following is an assumption the
bureaucrat’s argument requires?
(A) 	 An ideal bureaucracy will provide an appeal
procedure for complaints even after it has
defined and classified all possible problems and
set out regulations regarding each eventuality.
(B) 	 For each problem that an ideal bureaucracy has
defined and classified, the bureaucracy has
received at least one complaint revealing that
problem.
(C) 	 An ideal bureaucracy will never be permanently
without complaints about problems that are not
covered by that bureaucracy’s regulations.
(D) 	 An ideal bureaucracy can reach its primary goal
if, but only if, its system of regulations is always
expanding to cover problems that had not been
anticipated.
(E) 	 Any complaint that an ideal bureaucracy
receives will reveal an unanticipated problem
that the bureaucracy is capable of defining and
classifying.
GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

3	

3	 3	 3		
3	
20.	 Scientists studying a common type of bacteria have
discovered that most bacteria of that type are in
hibernation at any given time. Some microbiologists
have concluded from this that bacteria in general are
usually in hibernation. This conclusion would be
reasonable if all types of bacteria were rather similar.
But, in fact, since bacteria are extremely diverse, it is
unlikely that most types of bacteria hibernate regularly.
	

Which one of the following most accurately expresses
the overall conclusion of the argument?
(A) 	 Bacteria of most types are usually in hibernation.
(B) 	 It is probably not true that most types of bacteria
hibernate regularly.
(C) 	 If bacteria are extremely diverse, it is unlikely
that most types of bacteria hibernate regularly.
(D) 	 The conclusion that bacteria in general are
usually in hibernation would be reasonable if all
types of bacteria were rather similar.
(E) 	 It is likely that only one type of bacteria
hibernates regularly.

21.	 Any student who is not required to hand in written
homework based on the reading assignments in a course
will not complete all of the reading assignments. Even
highly motivated students will neglect their reading
assignments if they are not required to hand in written
homework. Therefore, if the students in a course are
given several reading assignments and no written
assignments, no student in that course will receive a
high grade for the course.
	

The conclusion of the argument follows logically if
which one of the following is assumed?
(A)	
(B)	
(C)	
(D)	

(E)	

No student who completes anything less than
all of the reading assignments for a course will
earn a high grade for that course.
Any student who completes all of the reading
and written assignments for a course will earn a
high grade in that course.
All highly motivated students who complete all
of the reading assignments for a course will
receive high grades for that course.
If highly motivated students are required to
hand in written homework on their reading
assignments, then they will complete all of their
reading assignments.
Some highly motivated students will earn high
grades in a course if they are required to hand in
written homework on their reading assignments.

22.	 In a study, one group of volunteers was fed a highprotein, low-carbohydrate diet; another group was
fed a low-protein, high-carbohydrate diet. Both diets
contained the same number of calories, and each
volunteer’s diet prior to the experiment had contained
moderate levels of proteins and carbohydrates. After ten
days, those on the low-carbohydrate diet had lost more
weight than those on the high-carbohydrate diet. Thus,
the most effective way to lose body fat is to eat much
protein and shun carbohydrates.
	

Which one of the following, if true, most weakens the
argument above?
(A) 	 A low-protein, high-carbohydrate diet causes the
human body to retain water, the added weight
of which largely compensates for the weight of
any body fat lost, whereas a high-protein, lowcarbohydrate diet does not.
(B) 	 Many people who consume large quantities of
protein nevertheless gain significant amounts of
body fat.
(C) 	 A high-protein, low-carbohydrate diet will often
enable the human body to convert some body
fat into muscle, without causing any significant
overall weight loss.
(D) 	 In the experiment, the volunteers on the highcarbohydrate diet engaged in regular exercise of
a kind known to produce weight loss, and those
on the low-carbohydrate diet did not.
(E) 	 Many of the volunteers who had been on the
low-carbohydrate diet eventually regained much
of the weight they had lost on the diet after
returning to their normal diets.

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

3	

3	 3	 3		
3	
23.	 Essayist: Computers have the capacity to represent
and to perform logical transformations on pieces
of information. Since exactly the same applies
to the human mind, the human mind is a type of
computer.
	

The flawed pattern of reasoning in which one of the
following most closely resembles the flawed pattern of
reasoning in the essayist’s argument?
(A) 	 Often individual animals sacrifice their lives
when the survival of their offspring or close
relatives is threatened. It is probable, therefore,
that there is a biological basis for the fact that
human beings are similarly often willing to
sacrifice their own well-being for the good of
their community.
(B) 	 In the plastic arts, such as sculpture or painting,
no work can depend for its effectiveness upon
a verbal narrative that explains it. Since the
same can be said of poetry, we cannot consider
this characteristic as a reasonable criterion for
distinguishing the plastic arts from other arts.
(C) 	 In any organism, the proper functioning of each
component depends upon the proper functioning
of every other component. Thus, communities
belong to the category of organisms, since
communities are invariably characterized by this
same interdependence of components.
(D) 	 Some vitamins require the presence in adequate
amounts of some mineral in order to be fully
beneficial to the body. Thus, since selenium is
needed to make vitamin E fully active, anyone
with a selenium deficiency will have a greater
risk of contracting those diseases from which
vitamin E provides some measure of protection.
(E) 	 Friendship often involves obligations whose
fulfillment can be painful or burdensome.
The same can be said of various forms of
cooperation that cannot strictly be called
friendship. Thus cooperation, like friendship,
can require that priority be given to goals other
than mere self-interest.

24.	 It is popularly believed that a poem has whatever
meaning is assigned to it by the reader. But objective
evaluation of poetry is possible only if this popular
belief is false; for the aesthetic value of a poem cannot
be discussed unless it is possible for at least two readers
to agree on the correct interpretation of the poem.
	

Which one of the following is an assumption required
by the argument?
(A) 	 Only if they find the same meaning in a poem
can two people each judge that it has aesthetic
value.
(B) 	 If two readers agree about the meaning of a given
poem, that ensures that an objective evaluation
of the poem can be made.
(C) 	 Discussion of a poem is possible only if it is false
that a poem has whatever meaning is assigned
to it by the reader.
(D) 	 A given poem can be objectively evaluated only
if the poem’s aesthetic value can be discussed.
(E) 	 Aesthetic evaluation of literature is best
accomplished through discussion by more than
two readers.

25.	 Dean: The mathematics department at our university
has said that it should be given sole responsibility
for teaching the course Statistics for the
Social Sciences. But this course has no more
mathematics in it than high school algebra
does. The fact that a course has mathematics
in it does not mean that it needs to be taught
by a mathematics professor, any more than a
course approaching its subject from a historical
perspective must be taught by a history professor.
Such demands by the mathematics department are
therefore unjustified.
	

The dean’s argument is most vulnerable to criticism on
the grounds that it
(A) 	 presumes, without providing justification, that
expertise in a subject does not enable one to
teach that subject well
(B) 	 purports to refute a view by showing that one
possible reason for that view is insufficient
(C) 	 presumes, without providing justification, that
most students are as knowledgeable about
mathematics as they are about history
(D) 	 fails to establish that mathematics professors are
not capable of teaching Statistics for the Social
Sciences effectively
(E) 	 presumes, without providing justification, that
any policies that apply to history courses must
be justified with respect to mathematics courses

S T O P
IF YOU FINISH BEFORE TIME IS CALLED, YOU MAY CHECK YOUR WORK ON THIS SECTION ONLY.
DO NOT WORK ON ANY OTHER SECTION IN THE TEST.

4	

4	4	4	4	
SECTION IV
Time—35 minutes
22 Questions
Directions: Each group of questions in this section is based on a set of conditions. In answering some of the questions, it may be
useful to draw a rough diagram. Choose the response that most accurately and completely answers each question and blacken the
corresponding space on your answer sheet.
Questions 1-6
There are exactly six law students—Gambini, Little,
Mitchum, Richardson, Saito, and Veracruz—in a trial
advocacy class. The class is divided into three trial teams—
team 1, team 2, and team 3—of exactly two students each.
Each student is on exactly one of the teams. Each student
prepares exactly one of either the opening argument or
the final argument for his or her team. The teams must be
formed according to the following specifications:
Mitchum is on the same team as either Gambini or
Veracruz.
Little prepares an opening argument.
Either Gambini or Richardson, but not both, prepares a
final argument.
1.	 Which one of the following could be the composition of
each team and the argument each student prepares?
(A) 	 team 1: Little, opening; Gambini, final team
2: Veracruz, opening; Mitchum, final team 3:
Saito, opening; Richardson, final
(B) 	 team 1: Mitchum, opening; Gambini, final
team 2: Veracruz, opening; Little, final team 3:
Richardson, opening; Saito, final
(C) 	 team 1: Richardson, opening; Gambini, final
team 2: Mitchum, opening; Saito, final team 3:
Little, opening; Veracruz, final
(D) 	 team 1: Gambini, opening; Mitchum, final team
2: Little, opening; Richardson, final team 3:
Veracruz, opening; Saito, final
(E) 	 team 1: Gambini, opening; Mitchum, final team
2: Richardson, opening; Saito, final team 3:
Little, opening; Veracruz, final
2.	 If Gambini is on the same team as Mitchum, and if
Gambini prepares the final argument for that team, then
which one of the following could be true?
(A) 	 Little is on the same team as Veracruz, who
prepares the opening argument for the team.
(B) 	 Richardson is on the same team as Saito, who
prepares the opening argument for the team.
(C) 	 Richardson is on the same team as Saito, who
prepares the final argument for the team.
(D) 	 Saito is on the same team as Veracruz, who
prepares the opening argument for the team.
(E) 	 Saito is on the same team as Veracruz, who
prepares the final argument for the team.

3.	 Which one of the following could be true?
	
(A) 	 Gambini, who prepares a final argument, is on
the same team as Richardson.
(B) 	 Gambini, who prepares a final argument, is on
the same team as Veracruz.
(C) 	 Gambini, who prepares an opening argument, is
on the same team as Little.
(D) 	 Little, who prepares an opening argument, is on
the same team as Mitchum.
(E) 	 Mitchum, who prepares an opening argument, is
on the same team as Saito.
4.	 If Richardson is on the same team as Veracruz, then for
exactly how many of the students can it be determined
which of the arguments he or she prepares?
	
(A) 	 one
(B) 	 two
(C) 	 three
(D) 	 four
(E) 	 five
5.	 If Little is on the same team as Richardson, then which
one of the following must be true?
(A) 	
(B) 	
(C) 	
(D) 	
(E) 	

Saito is on the same team as Veracruz.
Gambini is on the same team as Mitchum.
Mitchum prepares a final argument.
Veracruz prepares a final argument.
Gambini prepares an opening argument.

6.	 If Saito prepares an opening argument, then which one
of the following pairs of students could be on the same
team as each other?
(A)	
(B)	
(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

Gambini and Little
Gambini and Saito
Little and Veracruz
Mitchum and Veracruz
Richardson and Veracruz

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

4

4	

4	4	4	4	
Questions 7-12
While on vacation, Sukanya receives several e-mail
messages from work, each message from one of three
associates: Hilary, Jerome, and Lula. Sukanya receives at
least one and no more than two messages from each of
them. Sukanya receives each message on the day it is sent.
No more than one message is sent each day. The messages
are received in a manner consistent with the following:
The first message is not from Lula.
Both the first and last messages are from the same
person.
Exactly once Sukanya receives a message from Jerome
on the day after receiving one from Hilary.
Of the first three messages, exactly one is from Jerome.
7.	 Which one of the following could be an accurate list of
the e-mail messages Sukanya receives, identified by the
person each message is from and listed in the order she
receives them?
(A) 	
(B) 	
(C) 	
(D) 	
(E) 	

Lula, Hilary, Jerome, Hilary, Jerome, Lula
Jerome, Lula, Hilary, Lula, Jerome
Jerome, Lula, Hilary, Jerome, Hilary
Jerome, Lula, Hilary, Hilary, Jerome
Hilary, Lula, Lula, Jerome, Jerome, Hilary

8.	 What is the maximum possible number of e-mail
messages Sukanya receives after Jerome’s first message
but before Hilary’s first message?
	
(A) 	 zero
(B) 	 one
(C) 	 two
(D) 	 three
(E) 	 four

9.	 If Sukanya receives exactly four e-mail messages, then
which one of the following must be true?
	
(A) 	 Exactly one of the messages is from Lula.
(B) 	 Exactly two of the messages are from Jerome.
(C) 	 The second message is from Lula.
(D) 	 The third message is from Hilary.
(E) 	 The fourth message is from Jerome.
10.	 Which one of the following e-mail messages CANNOT
be from Lula?
	
(A) 	 the second message
(B) 	 the third message
(C) 	 the fourth message
(D) 	 the fifth message (if there is a fifth one)
(E) 	 the sixth message (if there is a sixth one)
11.	 If Sukanya receives six e-mail messages, the fifth of
which is from Lula, which one of the following must be
true?
(A) 	
(B) 	
(C) 	
(D) 	
(E) 	

The first message is from Jerome.
The second message is from Lula.
The third message is from Hilary.
The fourth message is from Jerome.
The sixth message is from Lula.

12.	 If Sukanya receives two e-mail messages from Lula,
what is the maximum possible number of e-mail
messages Sukanya receives after Lula’s first message
but before Lula’s last message?
	
(A) 	 zero
(B) 	 one
(C) 	 two
(D) 	 three
(E) 	 four

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

4

4	

4	4	4	4	
Questions 13-18
Mercotek carried out a study to compare the productivity
of its night shift with that of its day shift. Every week the
company’s six crews—F, G, H, R, S, and T—were ranked
from first (most productive) to sixth (least productive).
There were no ties. For any given week, either G and T
were the two night-shift crews or else S and H were—the
four other crews were the day-shift crews for that week. The
following relationships held for every week of the study:
F is more productive than G.
R is more productive than S.
R is more productive than T.
S is more productive than H.
G is more productive than T.
13.	 Which one of the following could be an accurate
ranking of all the crews, in order from first to sixth, for
a given week of the study?
	
(A) 	 F, G, T, R, S, H
(B) 	 F, R, G, T, H, S
(C) 	 G, R, T, S, H, F
(D) 	 R, F, G, S, H, T
(E) 	 R, S, H, T, F, G
14.	 If F is ranked third for a given week of the study, then
which one of the following could also be true of that
week?
	
(A) 	 G ranks second.
(B) 	 H ranks fourth.
(C) 	 R ranks second.
(D) 	 S ranks fourth.
(E) 	 T ranks fourth.

15.	 Which one of the following CANNOT be the crew
ranked fifth for any given week of the study?
	
(A) 	 G
(B) 	 H
(C)	R
(D) 	 S
(E) 	 T
16.	 For any given week of the study, the ranking of all the
crews is completely determined if which one of the
following is true?
	
(A) 	 F ranks second that week.
(B) 	 G ranks fifth that week.
(C) 	 H ranks third that week.
(D) 	 R ranks third that week.
(E) 	 S ranks third that week.
17.	 If the night-shift crews rank fifth and sixth for a given
week of the study, then which one of the following
could also be true of that week?
(A) 	
(B) 	
(C) 	
(D) 	
(E) 	

G ranks fourth.
H ranks fifth.
R ranks third.
S ranks fourth.
T ranks fifth.

18.	 Which one of the following is a complete and accurate
list of the crews that CANNOT be ranked third for any
given week of the study?
(A) 	
(B) 	
(C) 	
(D) 	
(E) 	

G, H, S
R, T
F, T
G, T
T

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

4

4	

4	4	4	4	
Questions 19-23
A shuttle van stops exactly four times—once at Fundy, once
at Los Altos, once at Mineola, and once at Simcoe—not
necessarily in that order. The van starts with exactly four
passengers on board—Greg, Jasmine, Rosa, and Vijay—
each of whom gets off at a different stop. The following
conditions hold:
Los Altos is the first or second stop.
Rosa is still on board when the van reaches Mineola.
Jasmine is on board longer than Vijay.
If Jasmine is still on board when the van reaches Fundy,
then Greg is still on board when the van reaches
Simcoe; otherwise, Greg is not still on board when the
van reaches Simcoe.
19.	 Which one of the following could be a complete and
accurate matching of stops, listed in the order in which
the van stops at them, to the passengers who get off at
them?
	
(A) 	 Los Altos: Greg
	
Mineola: Vijay
	
Fundy: Jasmine
	
Simcoe: Rosa
(B) 	 Simcoe: Vijay
	
Mineola: Greg
	
Fundy: Rosa
	
Los Altos: Jasmine
(C) 	 Los Altos: Jasmine
	
Mineola: Vijay
	
Fundy: Greg
	
Simcoe: Rosa
(D) 	 Los Altos: Rosa
	
Mineola: Vijay
	
Fundy: Jasmine
	
Simcoe: Greg
(E) 	 Los Altos: Vijay
	
Fundy: Jasmine
	
Mineola: Rosa
	
Simcoe: Greg

20.	 If Mineola is the first stop, which one of the following
is a complete and accurate list of the passengers who
could possibly get off there?
	
(A) 	 Rosa
(B) 	 Greg, Rosa
(C) 	 Greg, Vijay
(D) 	 Greg, Rosa, Vijay
(E) 	 Jasmine, Rosa, Vijay
21.	 If Fundy is the first stop, then which one of the
following could accurately list the passengers in order
from first to last off?
	
(A) 	 Greg, Vijay, Jasmine, Rosa
(B) 	 Rosa, Vijay, Greg, Jasmine
(C) 	 Vijay, Greg, Rosa, Jasmine
(D) 	 Vijay, Jasmine, Greg, Rosa
(E) 	 Vijay, Rosa, Jasmine, Greg
22.	 Which one of the following must be true if Greg is
still on board both when the van reaches Los Altos and
when it reaches Simcoe, not necessarily in that order,
assuming he is the second one off the van?
	
(A) 	 Vijay is on board when the van reaches Simcoe.
(B) 	 Vijay is on board when the van reaches Los
Altos.
(C) 	 Rosa is on board when the van reaches Simcoe.
(D) 	 Rosa is on board when the van reaches Fundy.
(E) 	 Jasmine is on board when the van reaches
Mineola.
23.	 If Greg is not on board when the van reaches Simcoe,
then which one of the following must be false?
	
(A) 	 Greg is on board when the van reaches Fundy.
(B) 	 Jasmine is on board when the van reaches
Mineola.
(C) 	 Rosa is on board when the van reaches Fundy.
(D) 	 Vijay is on board when the van reaches Fundy.
(E) 	 Vijay is on board when the van reaches Mineola.

S T O P
IF YOU FINISH BEFORE TIME IS CALLED, YOU MAY CHECK YOUR WORK ON THIS SECTION ONLY.
DO NOT WORK ON ANY OTHER SECTION IN THE TEST.

4

LSAT® Writing Sample Topic
© 2006 by Law School Admission Council, Inc. All rights reserved.

Directions: The scenario presented below describes two choices, either one of which can be supported on the basis of the
information given. Your essay should consider both choices and argue for one and against the other, based on the two specified
criteria and the facts provided. There is no “right” or “wrong” choice: a reasonable argument can be made for either.
	
Aña Rodriguez is a shy five-year-old girl. The Rodriguez family must send Aña to either Mercer Preschool or Butte Preschool.
The Rodriguezes are equally satisfied with the quality of the teachers and the facilities at both schools. Using the facts below, write
an essay in which you argue for one preschool over the other based on the following two criteria:
•	
•	

The preschool must provide a stimulating social environment for Aña.
The preschool must be conveniently located.

	
Aña is an only child who lives on a block with no other children her age. Two children Aña occasionally plays with at the
local playground would be in her class at Mercer. The class size at Mercer is eight children. Mercer occupies its students’ time,
for the most part, with activities for the entire class. There is little unstructured time. Mercer is within easy walking distance of the
Rodriguez home. Parking near Mercer is nearly impossible. After the infrequent winter snowstorms, snow is typically left to melt
rather than shoveled. Walking can be difficult at such times.
	
Aña’s best friend will be attending Butte. Aña knows none of the other children who would be in her class. The class size at
Butte is 12 children. Most of the students’ time is not formally structured. The children are free to participate in a number of optional
activities with or without their classmates. The few structured activities all involve small groups of two or three children. Butte is a
10-minute drive, or 20-minute bus ride, from the Rodriguez house. Parking is always available since Butte has its own lot. Aña’s
younger cousin Pablo, who lives on her block, will be attending a different class at Butte.

Scratch Paper

Do not write your essay in this space.

Computing Your Score

Directions:

Conversion Chart:
For Converting Raw Score to the 120-180 LSAT
Scaled Score
LSAT Form 8LSN77

1.	 Use the Answer Key on the next page to check your
	answers.
2. 	 Use the Scoring Worksheet below to compute your
	 raw score.
3. 	 Use the Score Conversion Chart to convert your
	 raw score into the 120-180 scale.
Scoring Worksheet
1. 	 Enter the number of questions you answered
	 correctly in each section.
Number
Correct
	
	
	
	

SECTION I.	.	.	.	.
SECTION II	.	.	.	.	
SECTION III.	.	.	.
SECTION IV.	.	.	.

2. 	 Enter the sum here:	
		
This is your Raw Score.

	

	Reported		
Raw Score
Score	
Lowest		
180
179
178
177
176
175
174
173
172
171
170
169
168
167
166
165
164
163
162
161
160
159
158
157
156
155
154
153
152
151
150
149
148
147
146
145
144
143
142
141
140
139
138
137
136
135
134
133
132
131
130
129
128
127
126
125
124
123
122
121
120

99
98
97
96
__*
95
94
__*
93
92
91
90
89
87
86
85
83
82
81
79
77
76
74
72
70
69
67
65
63
61
59
58
56
54
52
50
48
47
45
43
41
40
38
36
35
33
32
30
29
27
26
25
24
22
21
20
19
18
17
16
0

Highest
100
98
97
96
__*
95
94
__*
93
92
91
90
89
88
86
85
84
82
81
80
78
76
75
73
71
69
68
66
64
62
60
58
57
55
53
51
49
47
46
44
42
40
39
37
35
34
32
31
29
28
26
25
24
23
21
20
19
18
17
16
15

Answer Key

	
SECTION I
	
1.	 B 	
8. 	 D		
15. 	
	
2.	 A 	
9. 	 D		
16. 	
	
3. 	 C 	
10. 	 B 		
17. 	
	
4. 	 A 	
11. 	 E 		
18. 	
	
5. 	 B 	
12. 	 C 		
19. 	
	
6. 	 A	
13. 	 D		
20.	
	
7. 	 A	
14. 	 E 		
21. 	
	
					 SECTION II	
			
	
1.	 D 	
8. 	 E		
15. 	
	
2.	 A 	
9. 	 B		
16. 	
	
3. 	 A 	
10. 	 E 		
17. 	
	
4. 	 B 	
11. 	 A 		
18. 	
	
5. 	 E 	
12. 	 C 		
19. 	
	
6. 	 E	
13. 	 A		
20.	
	
7. 	 A	
14. 	 A 		
21. 	
		
					SECTION III		
		
	
1.	 B 	
8. 	 E		
15. 	
	
2.	 C 	
9. 	 D		
16. 	
	
3. 	 B 	
10. 	 D 		
17. 	
	
4. 	 A 	
11. 	 B 		
18. 	
	
5. 	 A 	
12. 	 D 		
19. 	
	
6. 	 D	
13. 	 D		
20.	
	
7. 	 E	
14. 	 B 		
21. 	

D	
B	
D	
E	
C	
A	
B	

22.	
23.	
24.	
25. 	

E	
B	
D	
C	

D	
C	
B	
C	
D	
B	
A	

22.	
23.	
24.	
25. 	
26.	
27.	

D	
D	
B	
B	
C	
D	

E	
C	
A	
E	
C	
B	
A	

22.	
23.	
24.	
25. 	

A	
C	
D	
B	

		

SECTION IV
		
	
1.	 D 	
8. 	 C		
15. 	
	
2.	 C 	
9. 	 A		
16. 	
	
3. 	 A 	
10. 	 E 		
17. 	
	
4. 	 B 	
11. 	 D 		
18. 	
	
5. 	 E 	
12. 	 B 		
19. 	
	
6. 	 C	
13. 	 D		
20.	
	
7. 	 D	
14. 	 B 		
21. 	

C	
22.	 C	
C	
23.	 D	
C	
E	
E	
D	
D 				

