The October 2011 LSAT
Section I....................................35 minutes
Section II...................................35 minutes

Section IV..................................35 minutes
Section V...................................35 minutes

The test begins on the next page.

Test 2

Section III..................................35 minutes

1	

			 1

1	
SECTION I
Time—35 minutes
25 Questions

Test 2

Directions: The questions in this section are based on the reasoning contained in brief statements or passages. For some questions,
more than one of the choices could conceivably answer the question. However, you are to choose the best answer; that is, the
response that most accurately and completely answers the question. You should not make assumptions that are by commonsense
standards implausible, superfluous, or incompatible with the passage. After you have chosen the best answer, blacken the
corresponding space on your answer sheet.
1.	 Sometimes it is advisable for a medical patient to seek
a second opinion. But this process can be awkward for
both the patient and the physicians, since the patient
often worries that the first physician will be alienated.
In addition, for the first physician there is the issue of
pride: a second opinion tacitly highlights a physician’s
fallibility. And the second physician is in the position
of evaluating not only a patient’s health, but also,
inevitably and uncomfortably, a colleague’s work.

3.	 Political scientist: Efforts to create a more egalitarian
society are often wrongly criticized on the
grounds that total equality would necessarily
force everyone into a common mold. Equality is
presumed by such critics to require unacceptably
bland uniformity. But this is not so. By promoting
complementary human interests, a society can
achieve a greater and more prosperous equality
while enhancing rather than minimizing diversity.

	

	

Which one of the following most accurately states the
conclusion of the argument as a whole?
(A)	 Because of the awkwardness involved, it is best
for patients not to seek second opinions unless
it is absolutely necessary.
(B)	 In cases in which second opinions are necessary,
the first physician often feels that his or her
professional judgment is called into question.
(C)	 The process of obtaining a second medical
opinion can be awkward for those involved.
(D)	 Physicians who are called upon to offer second
opinions are always uncomfortable about
evaluating the work of colleagues.
(E)	 In many cases in which medical patients seek
second opinions, they are concerned about
offending the first physician.

2.	 There are 70 to 100 Florida panthers alive today. This
represents a very large increase over their numbers in
the 1970s, but their population must reach at least 250
if it is to be self-sustaining. Their current habitat is not
large enough to support any more of these animals,
however.
	

If the statements above are true, which one of the
following must also be true?
(A)	 Some part of the panthers’ current habitat is
only of marginal quality.
(B)	 If the population of Florida panthers ever
exceeds 250, it will be self-sustaining.
(C)	 Unless Florida panthers acquire a larger habitat,
their population will not be self-sustaining.
(D)	 The population of Florida panthers will never
increase much beyond its current level.
(E)	 Today, Florida panthers occupy a larger habitat
than they did in the 1970s.

The political scientist’s argument proceeds by
(A)	 undermining a view by showing that its
general acceptance would lead to undesirable
consequences
(B)	 rebutting an objection by attacking the
assumption on which it is said to be based
(C)	 attacking a view by claiming that those who
propose it are motivated only by self-interest
(D)	 claiming that whatever is true of a group must
be true of each of the members of the group
(E)	 undermining an apparent counterexample to a
universal claim

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

1	

			 1

1	
4.	 Physician: In an experiment, 50 patients with chronic
back pain were divided into two groups. Small
magnets were applied to the backs of one group;
the other group received no treatment. Most of
the patients in the first group, but very few in the
second group, reported a significant reduction in
pain. This shows that magnetic fields are probably
effective at relieving some back pain.
	

	

The argument is flawed in that it fails to consider the
possibility that
(A)	 dogs’ misbehavior is the cause of, rather than
the result of, frequent discipline
(B)	 dogs learn from past experience how their
owners are likely to react to misbehavior
(C)	 discipline does not cause misbehavior on the
part of animals other than dogs
(D)	 kennel club members tend to be more skilled at
raising dogs than are other dog owners
(E)	 kennel club members are more likely to use
discipline than are other dog owners

7.	 Recently, a report commissioned by a confectioners
trade association noted that chocolate, formerly
considered a health scourge, is an effective antioxidant
and so has health benefits. Another earlier claim was
that oily foods clog arteries, leading to heart disease,
yet reports now state that olive oil has a positive
influence on the circulatory system. From these
examples, it is clear that if you wait long enough,
almost any food will be reported to be healthful.
	

The reasoning in the argument is flawed in that the
argument
(A)	 relies on the truth of a claim by a source that is
likely to be biased
(B)	 applies a general rule to specific cases to which
it does not pertain
(C)	 bases an overly broad generalization on just a
few instances
(D)	 takes for granted that all results of nutritional
research are eventually reported
(E)	 fails to consider that there are many foods that
are reported to be unhealthful

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

Test 2

5.	 Kennel club members who frequently discipline their
dogs report a higher incidence of misbehavior than do
members who rarely or never discipline their dogs.
We can conclude from this that discipline does not
improve dogs’ behavior; on the contrary, it encourages
misbehavior.

Which one of the following, if true, most helps to
resolve the apparent discrepancy described above?
(A)	 The factors affecting the creation of tornadoes
were not well known to meteorologists before
1953.
(B)	 The intensity of the average tornado is greater
now than it was in 1953.
(C)	 The number of tornadoes recorded annually has
increased only slightly in the last five years.
(D)	 The amount of property damage done by
tornadoes has grown substantially since 1953.
(E)	 Many more citizens are helping authorities
detect tornadoes now than in 1953.

Which one of the following, if true, constitutes the
logically strongest counter to the physician’s argument?
(A)	 A patient’s merely knowing that a treatment has
been applied can lead to improvement in his or
her condition.
(B)	 Most physicians believe that medication relieves
chronic back pain more effectively than
magnets do.
(C)	 No other experiments have been done showing
that magnetic fields reduce pain in any area
other than the back.
(D)	 Some of the scientists who helped design
the experiment believed even before the
experiment that magnetic fields relieve back
pain, but they were not directly involved in
conducting the experiment.
(E)	 There was wide variation in the specific causes
of the chronic back pain suffered by the
patients in the experiment.

	

6.	 The number of tornadoes recorded annually in
North America has more than tripled since 1953. Yet
meteorologists insist that the climatic factors affecting
the creation of tornadoes are unchanged.

1	
	8.	 According to the “bottom-up” theory of how

ecosystems are structured, the availability of edible
plants is what primarily determines an ecosystem’s
characteristics since it determines how many herbivores
the ecosystem can support, which in turn determines
how many predators it can support. This theory also
holds that a reduction in the number of predators will
have little impact on the rest of the ecosystem.

	

Test 2

			 1

1	

9.	 If a child is to develop healthy bones, the child’s diet
must include sufficient calcium. It therefore follows
that the diets of children who do not develop healthy
bones do not include sufficient calcium.
	

(A)	 If bread is to have a firm crust, it must be
baked at the right temperature. It therefore
follows that bread that is not baked at the right
temperature will not have a firm crust.
(B)	 A cake must contain the right amount of flour
in order to taste good. It therefore follows that
cakes that do not taste good do not contain the
right amount of flour.
(C)	 The Bake-a-Thon, which is open to contestants
of all ages, has never been won by a person
under the age of 30. It therefore follows that
the winner of this year’s Bake-a-Thon will not
be under the age of 30.
(D)	 Both yeast and baking powder can cause sweet
rolls to rise. It therefore follows that yeast can
always be substituted for baking powder in a
recipe for sweet rolls.
(E)	 In recipe contests, there are always more
contestants in the pie category than there are
in the cake category. It therefore follows that
contestants generally have a better chance of
winning in the cake category than in the pie
category.

Which one of the following, if true, would provide
evidence against the bottom-up theory?
(A)	 In an effort to build up the population of a rare
species of monkey on Vahique Island, monkeys
were bred in zoos and released into the wild.
However, the effort failed because the trees
on which the monkeys fed were also nearly
extinct.
(B)	 After hunting virtually eliminated predators on
Rigu Island, the population of many herbivore
species increased more than tenfold, causing
the density of plants to be dramatically reduced.
(C)	 After many of the trees on Jaevix Island were
cleared, the island’s leaf-cutter ants, which
require a forested ecosystem, experienced a
substantial decrease in population, as did the
island’s anteaters.
(D)	 After a new species of fern was introduced
to Lisdok Island, native ferns were almost
eliminated. However, this did not affect the
population of the herbivores that had eaten the
native ferns, since they also thrived on a diet
of the new fern.
(E)	 Plants that are a dietary staple of wild pigs on
Sedif Island have flourished over the last three
decades, and the population of the pigs has not
changed much in spite of extensive hunting.

Flawed reasoning in which one of the following most
closely parallels the flawed reasoning in the argument
above?

10.	 History provides many examples of technological
innovations being strongly resisted by people whose
working conditions without those innovations were
miserable. This shows that social inertia is a more
powerful determinant of human behavior than is the
desire for comfort or safety.
	

Which one of the following, if true, most seriously
undermines the reasoning in the argument?
(A)	 People correctly believe that technological
innovations often cause job loss.
(B)	 People are often reluctant to take on new
challenges.
(C)	 Some examples of technological innovation
have been embraced by workers.
(D)	 People tend to adapt easily to gradually
implemented technological innovations.
(E)	 People correctly believe that technological
innovations almost always increase workers’
productivity.

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

1	

			 1

1	
11.	 In considering the fact that many people believe that
promotions are often given to undeserving employees
because the employees successfully flatter their
supervisors, a psychologist argued that although many
people who flatter their supervisors are subsequently
promoted, flattery generally is not the reason for their
success, because almost all flattery is so blatant that it
is obvious even to those toward whom it is directed.
	

Which one of the following, if assumed, enables the
psychologist’s conclusion to be properly drawn?

12.	 The government is being urged to prevent
organizations devoted to certain views on human
nutrition from advocating a diet that includes large
portions of uncooked meat, because eating uncooked
meat can be very dangerous. However, this purported
fact does not justify the government’s silencing the
groups, for surely the government would not be
justified in silencing a purely political group merely on
the grounds that the policies the group advocates could
be harmful to some members of society. The same
should be true for silencing groups with certain views
on human nutrition.
	

Which one of the following principles most helps to
justify the reasoning in the argument?
(A)	 The government should not silence any group
for advocating a position that a significant
proportion of society believes to be beneficial.
(B)	 The government ought to do whatever is in the
best interest of society.
(C)	 One ought to advocate a position only if one
believes that it is true or would be beneficial.
(D)	 The government ought not to silence an opinion
merely on the grounds that it could be harmful
to disseminate the opinion.
(E)	 One ought to urge the government to do only
those things the government is justified in doing.

	

Which one of the following, if true, would most
weaken the medical researcher’s argument?
(A)	 For both groups of joggers compared by the
scientists, the rate of jogging injuries during
the study was lower than the overall rate of
jogging injuries.
(B)	 Among the joggers in the groups compared by
the scientists, many of those previously injured
while jogging experienced difficulty in their
efforts to perform stretches.
(C)	 Most jogging injuries result from falls, collisions,
and other mishaps on which the flexibility
resulting from stretching would have little if
any effect.
(D)	 The more prone a jogger is to jogging injuries,
the more likely he or she is to develop the
habit of performing stretches before jogging.
(E)	 Studies have found that, for certain forms of
exercise, stretching beforehand can reduce the
severity of injuries resulting from that exercise.

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

Test 2

(A)	 People in positions of responsibility expect to
be flattered.
(B)	 Official guidelines for granting promotion tend
to focus on merit.
(C)	 Flattery that is not noticed by the person being
flattered is ineffective.
(D)	 Many people interpret insincere flattery as
sincere admiration.
(E)	 Supervisors are almost never influenced by
flattery when they notice it.

13.	 Medical researcher: Scientists compared a large group
of joggers who habitually stretch before jogging
to an equal number of joggers who do not stretch
before jogging. Both groups of joggers incurred
roughly the same number of injuries. This
indicates that stretching before jogging does not
help to prevent injuries.

1	

			 1

1	
14.	 Superconductor development will enable energy to be
transported farther with less energy lost in transit. This
will probably improve industrial productivity, for a
similar improvement resulted when oil and natural gas
replaced coal as the primary fossil fuels used in North
America. Shipping costs, a function of the distance
fossil fuels are shipped and the losses of material in
transit, decreased for factory owners at that time.
	

Test 2

	

The claim that superconductor development will
probably improve industrial productivity plays which
one of the following roles in the argument?
(A)	 It is a conclusion for which the claim that
shipping costs for fossil fuels are partly a
function of the losses of material in transit is
offered as partial support.
(B)	 It is a generalization for which the claim
that superconductor development will
enable energy to be transported farther with
less energy lost in transit is offered as an
illustration.
(C)	 It is an assumption supporting the conclusion
that superconductor development will enable
energy to be transported farther with less
energy lost in transit.
(D)	 It is a premise offered to support the claim that
oil and natural gas have replaced coal as the
primary fossil fuels used in North America.
(E)	 It is cited as evidence that shipping costs are
a function of the distances fossil fuels are
shipped and the losses of material in transit.

15.	 The French novelist Colette (1873–1954) has been
widely praised for the vividness of her language. But
many critics complain that her novels are indifferent
to important moral questions. This charge is unfair.
Each of her novels is a poetic condensation of a major
emotional crisis in the life of an ordinary person of
her time. Such emotional crises almost invariably raise
important moral questions.
	

16. The view that every person is concerned exclusively
with her or his own self-interest implies that
government by consent is impossible. Thus, social
theorists who believe that people are concerned only
with their self-interest evidently believe that aspiring to
democracy is futile, since democracy is not possible in
the absence of government by consent.

Which one of the following is an assumption on which
the argument depends?
(A)	 Critics who suggest that Colette’s novels are
indifferent to great moral questions of her time
greatly underestimate her literary achievements.
(B)	 A novel that poetically condenses a major
emotional crisis does not have to be indifferent
to the important moral questions raised by that
crisis.
(C)	 To deserve the level of praise that Colette has
received, a novelist’s work must concern itself
with important moral questions.
(D)	 The vividness of Colette’s language was not
itself the result of poetic condensation.
(E)	 Colette’s purpose in poetically condensing
emotional crises in the lives of characters
in her novels was to explore some of the
important moral questions of her time.

The reasoning in the argument is flawed in that the
argument
(A)	 infers merely from the fact of someone’s
holding a belief that he or she believes an
implication of that belief
(B)	 infers that because something is true of a group
of people, it is true of each individual member
of the group
(C)	 infers that because something is true of each
individual person belonging to a group, it is true
of the group as a whole
(D)	 attempts to discredit a theory by discrediting
those who espouse that theory
(E)	 fails to consider that, even if an argument’s
conclusion is false, some of the assumptions
used to justify that conclusion may nonetheless
be true

17. Archaeologist: The mosaics that were removed from
Zeugma, the ancient city now flooded by the
runoff from Turkey’s Birecik Dam, should have
been left there. We had all the information about
them that we needed to draw archaeological
conclusions, and future archaeologists studying
the site, who may not have access to our records,
might be misled by their absence.
	

Which one of the following, if assumed, most helps to
justify the reasoning in the archaeologist’s argument?
(A)	 The only considerations that bear upon the
question of whether the mosaics should have
been removed are archaeological.
(B)	 Archaeologists studying a site can tell whether
or not that site had been flooded at some time.
(C)	 The materials used in the construction of a
mosaic are readily apparent when the mosaic
is examined in its original location.
(D)	 Archaeological sites from which artifacts have
been removed rarely mislead archaeologists
who later study the site.
(E)	 The removal of artifacts from archaeological
sites rarely has any environmental impact.

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

1	

			 1

1	
18.	 Traffic engineers have increased the capacity of
the Krakkenbak Bridge to handle rush-hour traffic
flow. The resultant increase in rush-hour traffic flow
would not have occurred had the city not invested in
computer modeling technology last year at the request
of the city’s mayor, and the city’s financial predicament
would not have been resolved if the traffic flow across
the bridge during rush hour had not been increased.
	

Which one of the following can be properly inferred
from the information above?

19.	 Court analyst: Courts should not allow the use of DNA
tests in criminal cases. There exists considerable
controversy among scientific experts about how
reliable these tests are. Unless there is widespread
agreement in the scientific community about how
reliable a certain test is, it is unreasonable for the
courts to allow evidence based on that test.
	

The court analyst’s reasoning is flawed because it fails
to take into account that
(A)	 courts have the authority to admit or exclude
any evidence irrespective of what experts have
to say about its reliability
(B)	 the standard against which evidence in a criminal
case is measured should not be absolute certainty
(C)	 experts may agree that the tests are highly
reliable while disagreeing about exactly how
reliable they are
(D)	 data should not be admitted as evidence in
a court of law without scientific witnesses
having agreed about how reliable they are
(E)	 there are also controversies about reliability of
evidence in noncriminal cases

	

If all of the statements above are true, which one of
the following must be true?
(A)	 The only people who can receive the special
discount coupon at the Main Street location
are Frequent Viewers club members who have
not rented more than ten videos.
(B)	 Some members of the Frequent Viewers club
have not rented more than ten videos.
(C)	 Some members of the Frequent Viewers club
can receive the special discount coupon at
more than one location of VideoKing.
(D)	 Some people who are not members of the
Frequent Viewers club can receive the special
discount coupon.
(E)	 If Pat rents a movie from the Main Street
location, then she will not receive the special
discount coupon.

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

Test 2

(A)	 The city’s financial predicament would not have
been resolved had the city chosen a competing
computer modeling software package.
(B)	 The city’s financial predicament would not
have been resolved had the city not invested in
computer modeling technology.
(C)	 On an average day, more traffic crosses the
Krakkenbak Bridge this year as compared to
last year.
(D)	 Traffic flow across the Krakkenbak Bridge
during rush hour would not have increased had
the city’s mayor not made investing in computer
modeling technology the highest budgetary
priority last year.
(E)	 The city’s mayor was a proponent of investing
in computer modeling technology because of
the city’s need to increase traffic flow across
the Krakkenbak Bridge during rush hour.

20.	 Members of the VideoKing Frequent Viewers club can
now receive a special discount coupon. Members of
the club who have rented more than ten videos in the
past month can receive the discount coupon only at
the VideoKing location from which the member last
rented a movie. Members of the Frequent Viewers club
who have not rented more than ten videos in the past
month can receive the coupon only at the Main Street
location. Pat, who has not rented more than ten videos
in the past month, can receive the special discount
coupon at the Walnut Lane location of VideoKing.

1	
21.	 Game show winners choosing between two equally
desirable prizes will choose either the one that is
more expensive or the one with which they are more
familiar. Today’s winner, Ed, is choosing between two
equally desirable and equally unfamiliar prizes, A and
B. He will thus choose A, which is more expensive.
	

Test 2

			 1

1	

The reasoning in which one of the following is most
similar to the reasoning above?
(A)	 With a book contract, an academic writer
receives either an advance or a guarantee of
royalties. Professor al-Sofi received an advance
for a book contract, so al-Sofi did not receive
a guarantee of royalties.
(B)	 When entering this amusement park, children
always choose to take their first ride on either
the Rocket or the Mouse. Janine insisted on
the Rocket for her first ride. Thus, Janine
would not have been standing near the Mouse
during her first half hour in the amusement park.
(C)	 The elliptical orbit of an asteroid is only
slightly eccentric unless it is affected by the
gravitational pull of a planet. Asteroid Y is
affected by Jupiter’s gravitational pull and
asteroid X is not. Thus, the orbit of asteroid Y
is the more eccentric of the two.
(D)
New students in this program must choose
either a physics class or an art class. Miyoko
has no desire to take a class in either of those
fields, so Miyoko will probably not enter this
program.
(E)	 To avoid predators, rabbits will either double
back on their pursuers or flee for nearby
cover. The rabbit being pursued by a fox in
this wildlife film is in a field that offers no
opportunity for nearby cover, so it will try to
double back on the fox.

22.	 Microbiologist: Because heavy metals are normally
concentrated in sewage sludge during the sewage
treatment process, the bacteria that survive in
the sludge have evolved the unusual ability to
resist heavy-metal poisoning. The same bacteria
also show a strong resistance to antibiotics.
This suggests that the bacteria’s exposure to the
heavy metals in the sewage sludge has somehow
promoted their resistance to antibiotics.
	

Which one of the following, if true, most strengthens
the microbiologist’s argument?
(A)	 Most bacteria that are not resistant to antibiotics
are not resistant to heavy-metal poisoning
either.
(B)	 Bacteria that live in sewage sludge that is
free of heavy metals, but is in other respects
similar to normal sewage, are generally
resistant to neither heavy-metal poisoning nor
antibiotics.
(C)	 Antibiotic resistance of bacteria that survive
in sewage sludge in which heavy metals are
concentrated contributes to their resistance to
heavy-metal poisoning.
(D)	 Sewage sludge that contains high concentrations
of heavy metals almost always contains
significant concentrations of antibiotics.
(E)	 Many kinds of bacteria that do not live in
sewage sludge are resistant to both heavy-metal
poisoning and antibiotics.

23.	 Ethicist: Marital vows often contain the promise to
love “until death do us part.” If “love” here refers
to a feeling, then this promise makes no sense, for
feelings are not within one’s control, and a promise
to do something not within one’s control makes
no sense. Thus, no one—including those making
marital vows—should take “love” in this context
to be referring to feelings.
	

The ethicist’s conclusion follows logically if which one
of the following is assumed?
(A)	 None of our feelings are within our control.
(B)	 People should not make promises to do
something that is not within their control.
(C)	 “Love” can legitimately be taken to refer to
something other than feelings.
(D)	 Promises should not be interpreted in such a
way that they make no sense.
(E)	 Promises that cannot be kept do not make any
sense.

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

1	

			 1

1	
24.	 Principle: If a food product contains ingredients whose
presence most consumers of that product would
be upset to discover in it, then the food should be
labeled as containing those ingredients.
	

Application: Crackly Crisps need not be labeled as
containing genetically engineered ingredients,
since most consumers of Crackly Crisps would
not care if they discovered that fact.

	

The application of the principle is most vulnerable to
criticism on the grounds that it

	

The contention that the town would not have to spend
as much as it does on removing trash if all town
residents sorted their garbage plays which one of the
following roles in the editorial’s argument?
(A)	 It is a claim that the editorial is trying to show
is false.
(B)	 It is a fact granted by the editorial that lends
some support to an alternative to the practice
that the editorial defends as preferable.
(C)	 It is an example of a difficulty facing the claim
that the editorial is attempting to refute.
(D)	 It is a premise that the editorial’s argument
relies on in reaching its conclusion.
(E)	 It is the conclusion that the editorial’s argument
purports to establish.

S T O P
IF YOU FINISH BEFORE TIME IS CALLED, YOU MAY CHECK YOUR WORK ON THIS SECTION ONLY.
DO NOT WORK ON ANY OTHER SECTION IN THE TEST.

Test 2

(A)	 fails to address the possibility that consumers
of a specific food may not be representative of
consumers of food in general
(B)	 fails to address the possibility that the genetically
engineered ingredients in Crackly Crisps may
have been proven safe for human consumption
(C)	 implicitly makes use of a value judgment that is
incompatible with the principle being applied
(D)	 takes for granted that if most consumers of
a product would buy it even if they knew
several of the ingredients in it, then they would
buy the product even if they knew all the
ingredients in it
(E)	 confuses a claim that under certain conditions
a certain action should be taken with a claim
that the action need not be taken in the absence
of those conditions

25.	 Editorial: The town would not need to spend as much
as it does on removing trash if all town residents
sorted their household garbage. However, while
telling residents that they must sort their garbage
would get some of them to do so, many would
resent the order and refuse to comply. The current
voluntary system, then, is to be preferred, because
it costs about as much as a nonvoluntary system
would and it does not engender nearly as much
resentment.

2	

2	 2		
2

2 	
SECTION II
Time—35 minutes
23 Questions

Directions: Each group of questions in this section is based on a set of conditions. In answering some of the questions, it may be
useful to draw a rough diagram. Choose the response that most accurately and completely answers each question and blacken the
corresponding space on your answer sheet.

Test 2

Questions 1–6
An administrator must assign parking spaces to six new
employees: Robertson, Souza, Togowa, Vaughn, Xu, and
Young. Each of the six employees must be assigned one of
the following parking spaces: #1, #2, #3, #4, #5, or #6. No
two employees can be assigned the same parking space. The
following rules govern the assignment of parking spaces:
Young must be assigned a higher-numbered parking
space than Togowa.
Xu must be assigned a higher-numbered parking space
than Souza.
Robertson must be assigned a higher-numbered parking
space than Young.
Robertson must be assigned parking space #1, #2, #3,
or #4.
1.	 Which one of the following could be the assignment of
parking spaces to the new employees?
(A)	 #1: Young; #2: Souza; #3: Vaughn;
		
#4: Robertson; #5: Togowa; #6: Xu
(B)	 #1: Vaughn; #2: Togowa; #3: Young; #4: Souza;
		 #5: Robertson; #6: Xu
(C)	 #1: Togowa; #2: Young; #3: Xu; #4: Robertson;
		 #5: Souza; #6: Vaughn
(D)	 #1: Togowa; #2: Robertson; #3: Young;
		 #4: Souza; #5: Vaughn; #6: Xu
(E)	 #1: Souza; #2: Togowa; #3: Young;
		 #4: Robertson; #5: Xu; #6: Vaughn
2.	 If Togowa is assigned a higher-numbered parking space
than Souza, then which one of the following could be
true?
(A)	
(B)	
(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

Young is assigned parking space #2.
Vaughn is assigned parking space #5.
Togowa is assigned parking space #3.
Souza is assigned parking space #2.
Robertson is assigned parking space #3.

3.	 The assignment of parking spaces to each of the new
employees is fully and uniquely determined if which
one of the following is true?
(A)	
(B)	
(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

Souza is assigned parking space #1.
Young is assigned parking space #2.
Vaughn is assigned parking space #3.
Robertson is assigned parking space #4.
Xu is assigned parking space #5.

4.	 For how many of the six new employees is the
assignment of a parking space limited to one of only
two possible spaces?
(A)	none
(B)	two
(C)	three
(D)	four
(E)	five
5.	 If Young is assigned a higher-numbered parking space
than Souza, then which one of the following could be
true?
(A)	
(B)	
(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

Togowa is assigned parking space #1.
Young is assigned parking space #2.
Robertson is assigned parking space #3.
Souza is assigned parking space #3.
Vaughn is assigned parking space #4.

6.	 If Robertson is assigned parking space #3, then which
one of the following must be true?
(A)	
(B)	
(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

Souza is assigned parking space #4.
Togowa is assigned parking space #2.
Vaughn is assigned parking space #5.
Xu is assigned parking space #6.
Young is assigned parking space #2.

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

2	

2	 2		
2

2 	
Questions 7–12
A government needs to assign new ambassadors to
Venezuela, Yemen, and Zambia. The candidates for these
ambassadorships are Jaramillo, Kayne, Landon, Novetzke,
and Ong. One ambassador will be assigned to each country,
and no ambassador will be assigned to more than one
country. The assignment of the ambassadors must meet the
following constraints:
Either Kayne or Novetzke, but not both, is assigned to
one of the ambassadorships.
If Jaramillo is assigned to one of the ambassadorships,
then so is Kayne.
If Ong is assigned as ambassador to Venezuela, Kayne
is not assigned as ambassador to Yemen.
If Landon is assigned to an ambassadorship, it is to
Zambia.

(A)	
	
	
(B)	
	
	
(C)	
	
	
(D)	
	
	
(E)	
	
	

Venezuela: Jaramillo
Yemen: Ong
Zambia: Novetzke
Venezuela: Kayne
Yemen: Jaramillo
Zambia: Landon
Venezuela: Landon
Yemen: Novetzke
Zambia: Ong
Venezuela: Novetzke
Yemen: Jaramillo
Zambia: Kayne
Venezuela: Ong
Yemen: Kayne
Zambia: Landon

(A)	
(B)	
(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

10.	 If Kayne is assigned as ambassador to Yemen, which
one of the following must be true?
(A)	
(B)	
(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

(A)	
(B)	
(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

Jaramillo and Novetzke
Jaramillo and Ong
Kayne and Landon
Kayne and Novetzke
Landon and Ong

Jaramillo is assigned as ambassador to
Venezuela.
Landon is assigned as ambassador to Zambia.
Ong is assigned as ambassador to Zambia.
Jaramillo is not assigned to an ambassadorship.
Ong is not assigned to an ambassadorship.

11.	 Which one of the following CANNOT be true?
(A)	
(B)	
(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

Jaramillo is assigned as ambassador to Zambia.
Kayne is assigned as ambassador to Zambia.
Novetzke is assigned as ambassador to Zambia.
Landon is not assigned to an ambassadorship.
Ong is not assigned to an ambassadorship.

12.	 Which one of the following, if substituted for the
constraint that if Jaramillo is assigned to one of the
ambassadorships, then so is Kayne, would have the
same effect in determining the assignment of the
ambassadors?
(A)	
(B)	
(C)	

8.	 The pair of candidates who are not assigned to
ambassadorships could be

Jaramillo and Landon
Jaramillo and Novetzke
Kayne and Landon
Kayne and Novetzke
Landon and Novetzke

(D)	
(E)	

If Kayne is assigned to an ambassadorship, then
so is Jaramillo.
If Landon and Ong are both assigned to
ambassadorships, then so is Novetzke.
If Ong is not assigned to an ambassadorship,
then Kayne is assigned to an ambassadorship.
Jaramillo and Novetzke are not both assigned to
ambassadorships.
Novetzke and Ong are not both assigned to
ambassadorships.

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

Test 2

7.	 Which one of the following could be the assignment of
the ambassadors?

9.	 If Ong is assigned as ambassador to Venezuela, then the
other two ambassadors assigned could be

2	
Questions 13–18

On the first day of a two-day study for a cycling magazine,
four riders—Reynaldo, Seamus, Theresa, and Yuki—will
each test one of four bicycles—F, G, H, and J. Each rider
will then test a different one of the bicycles on the second
day. Each rider tests only one bicycle per day, and all four
bicycles are tested each day. The assignment of riders to
bicycles is subject to the following conditions:
Reynaldo cannot test F.
Yuki cannot test J.
Theresa must be one of the testers for H.
The bicycle that Yuki tests on the first day must be
tested by Seamus on the second day.
13.	 Which one of the following is a possible assignment of
riders to bicycles, with the riders for each bicycle listed
in the order in which they test the bicycle?

Test 2

2	 2		
2

2 	

(A)	 F: Seamus, Reynaldo; G: Yuki, Seamus;
		 H: Theresa, Yuki; J: Reynaldo, Theresa
(B)	 F: Seamus, Yuki; G: Reynaldo, Theresa;
		 H: Yuki, Seamus; J: Theresa, Reynaldo
(C)	 F: Yuki, Seamus; G: Seamus, Reynaldo;
		 H: Theresa, Yuki; J: Reynaldo, Theresa
(D)	 F: Yuki, Seamus; G: Theresa, Reynaldo;
		 H: Reynaldo, Theresa; J: Seamus, Yuki
(E)	 F: Yuki, Theresa; G: Seamus, Yuki;
		 H: Theresa, Reynaldo; J: Reynaldo, Seamus
14.	 If Theresa tests G on the second day, then which one of
the following must be true?
(A)	
(B)	
(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

Reynaldo tests H on the first day.
Reynaldo tests J on the first day.
Theresa tests H on the second day.
Theresa tests J on the first day.
Yuki tests H on the second day.

15.	 Any of the following could be true EXCEPT:
(A)	
(B)	
(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

Reynaldo tests J on the first day.
Reynaldo tests J on the second day.
Seamus tests H on the first day.
Yuki tests H on the first day.
Yuki tests H on the second day.

16.	 Which one of the following CANNOT be true?
(A)	
(B)	
(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

Reynaldo tests G on the second day.
Seamus tests F on the first day.
Theresa tests F on the second day.
Reynaldo tests H on the first day.
Yuki tests F on the second day.

17.	 If Theresa tests J on the first day, then which one of the
following could be true?
(A)	
(B)	
(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

Reynaldo tests G on the second day.
Seamus tests H on the first day.
Yuki tests H on the second day.
Seamus is one of the testers for J.
Theresa is one of the testers for G.

18.	 Which one of the following CANNOT be true?
(A)	
(B)	
(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

Both Reynaldo and Seamus test J.
Both Reynaldo and Theresa test J.
Both Reynaldo and Yuki test G.
Both Seamus and Theresa test G.
Both Theresa and Yuki test F.

2	

2	 2		
2

2 	
Questions 19–23

21.	 Which one of the following must be true?

Exactly eight books—F, G, H, I, K, L, M, O—are placed
on a bookcase with exactly three shelves—the top shelf, the
middle shelf, and the bottom shelf. At least two books are
placed on each shelf. The following conditions must apply:
More of the books are placed on the bottom shelf than
the top shelf.
I is placed on the middle shelf.
K is placed on a higher shelf than F.
O is placed on a higher shelf than L.
F is placed on the same shelf as M.
19.	 Which one of the following could be a complete and
accurate list of the books placed on the bottom shelf?
F, M
F, H, M
G, H, K
F, G, M, O
G, H, L, M

(B)	
(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

22.	 If G is placed on the top shelf, then which one of the
following could be a complete and accurate list of the
books placed on the middle shelf?
(A)	
(B)	
(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

20.	 It is fully determined which of the shelves each of the
books is placed on if which one of the following is
true?
(A)	

(B)	

I and M are placed on the same shelf as each
other.
K and G are placed on the same shelf as each
other.
L and F are placed on the same shelf as each
other.
M and H are placed on the same shelf as each
other.
H and O are placed on the same shelf as each
other.

O is placed on a shelf higher than the shelf M is
placed on.
K is placed on a shelf higher than the shelf G is
placed on.
I is placed on a shelf higher than the shelf F is
placed on.
G is placed on a shelf higher than the shelf O is
placed on.
F is placed on a shelf higher than the shelf L is
placed on.

H, I
I, L
H, I, L
I, K, L
F, I, M

23.	 If L is placed on a shelf higher than the shelf H is
placed on, then which one of the following must be
true?
(A)	
(B)	
(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

F and G are placed on the same shelf as each
other.
G and H are placed on the same shelf as each
other.
H and M are placed on the same shelf as each
other.
I and G are placed on the same shelf as each
other.
K and O are placed on the same shelf as each
other.

S T O P
IF YOU FINISH BEFORE TIME IS CALLED, YOU MAY CHECK YOUR WORK ON THIS SECTION ONLY.
DO NOT WORK ON ANY OTHER SECTION IN THE TEST.

Test 2

(A)	
(B)	
(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

(A)	

3	

3	 3	 3		
3	
SECTION III
Time—35 minutes
25 Questions

Test 2

Directions: The questions in this section are based on the reasoning contained in brief statements or passages. For some questions,
more than one of the choices could conceivably answer the question. However, you are to choose the best answer; that is, the response
that most accurately and completely answers the question. You should not make assumptions that are by commonsense standards
implausible, superfluous, or incompatible with the passage. After you have chosen the best answer, blacken the corresponding space
on your answer sheet.
1.	 Insurance that was to become effective at 9 A.M. on
a certain date was taken out on the life of a flight
attendant. He died on that date at 10 A.M. local time,
which was two hours before 9 A.M. in the time zone
where the policy had been purchased. The insurance
company contended that the policy had not become
effective; a representative of the flight attendant’s
beneficiary, his mother, countered by arguing that the
policy amount should be paid because the attendant had
been his mother’s sole support, and she was ill.
	

The representative’s argument is flawed as a counter to
the insurance company’s contention because
(A) 	 the conclusion is no more than a paraphrase of
the evidence offered in support of it
(B) 	 it appeals to the emotion of pity rather than
addressing the issue raised
(C) 	 it makes an unwarranted distinction between
family obligations and business obligations
(D) 	 it substitutes an attack on a person for the giving
of reasons
(E) 	 a cause and its effect are mistaken for each other

2.	 Once a child’s imagination becomes developed, a host
of imaginary creatures may torment the child. But this
newly developed cognitive capacity may also be used to
render these creatures harmless. For instance, a child’s
new toy may be imagined as an ally, powerful enough
to ward off any imaginary threats.
	

The type of situation described above most closely
conforms to which one of the following propositions?
(A) 	 Some newly developed capacities only give rise
to problems.
(B) 	 Sometimes the cause of a problem may also
provide its solution.
(C) 	 Children are not able to distinguish between real
and imaginary threats.
(D) 	 The most effective way for children to address
their fears is to acknowledge them.
(E) 	 Most problems associated with child-rearing can
be solved with a little imagination.

3. 	 Trisha: Today’s family is declining in its ability
to carry out its functions of child-rearing and
providing stability for adult life. There must be a
return to the traditional values of commitment and
responsibility.
	

Jerod: We ought to leave what is good enough alone.
Contemporary families may be less stable than
traditionally, but most people do not find that to
be bad. Contemporary criticisms of the family are
overblown and destructive.

	

Trisha and Jerod disagree over whether the institution
of the family is
(A) 	
(B) 	
(C) 	
(D) 	
(E) 	

adequate as it is
changing over time
valued by most people
not going to survive
no longer traditional

4. 	 Politician P: My opponent claims that the government
is obligated to raise taxes to increase funding for
schools and health care. Because raising taxes
to increase funding for schools and health care
would make taxpayers upset over their loss of
buying power, my opponent is simply mistaken.
	

Politician P’s reasoning is questionable because it
involves
(A) 	 presupposing that a claim is mistaken on the
grounds that the person defending it advocates
other unpopular views
(B) 	 assuming that a claim is false on the grounds
that the person defending it is of questionable
character
(C) 	 concluding that a view is false on the grounds
that its implementation would lead to
unhappiness
(D) 	 appealing to wholly irrelevant issues to deflect
attention away from the real issue
(E) 	 insisting that an obligation exists without
offering any evidence that it exists

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

3	

3	 3	 3		
3	
5.	 In defending the Hyperion School of Journalism from
charges that its program is of little or no value to its
students, the dean of the school pointed to its recent
success in placing students: 65 percent of its graduates
went on to internships or jobs in print or broadcast
journalism.
	

Which one of the following, if true, most seriously
undermines the defense offered by the dean?

6.	 The largest volcano on Mars rises 27 kilometers above
the surrounding plain and covers an area roughly the
size of Romania. Even if the Earth’s gravity were as
low as the gravity of Mars is, no volcano of such size
could exist on Earth, for the Earth’s crust, although of
essentially the same composition as that of Mars, is too
thin to support even a small fraction of that mass and
would buckle under it, causing the mountain to sink.
	

If the statements above are true, which one of the
following must also be true on the basis of them?
(A) 	 The surface of Mars is less subject to forces of
erosion than is the surface of the Earth.
(B) 	 The highest volcanoes on Mars occur where its
crust is thickest.
(C) 	 On average, volcanoes on Mars are higher than
those on Earth.
(D) 	 The crust of Mars, at least at certain points on the
planet, is thicker than the crust of the Earth.
(E) 	 At least some of the Earth’s volcanoes would be
larger than they actually are if the Earth’s crust
were thicker than it is.

	

The argument relies on which one of the following
assumptions?
(A) 	 A nation once existed in which Caronianspeakers formed the majority of the population.
(B) 	 Caronian-speakers tend to perceive themselves as
constituting a single community.
(C) 	 The recommendation would not be satisfied by
the creation of a nation formed of disconnected
regions.
(D) 	 The new Caronian nation will not include as
citizens anyone who does not speak Caronian.
(E) 	 In most nations several different languages are
spoken.

8. 	 Sociologist: The welfare state cannot be successfully
implemented because it rests on the assumption
that human beings are unselfish—a seemingly
false assumption. The welfare state is feasible
only if wage earners are prepared to have their
hard­-earned funds used to help others in greater
need, and that requires an unselfish attitude.
But people innately seek their own well-being,
especially when the interests of others threaten it.
	

Which one of the following most accurately expresses
the main conclusion of the sociologist’s argument?
(A) 	 The welfare state will not work.
(B) 	 The welfare state unfairly asks those who work
hard to help those in greater need.
(C) 	 The assumption that human beings are unselfish
is false.
(D) 	 The interests of the less fortunate impinge on the
interests of others.
(E) 	 The welfare state relies on the generosity of
wage earners.

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

Test 2

(A) 	 More than half of the school’s students came
from jobs in journalism to improve their skills.
(B) 	 Some newspaper editors do not regard journalism
school as a necessary part of the training of a
journalist.
(C) 	 The number of cities with more than one major
newspaper has declined sharply over the last 25
years.
(D) 	 The program offered by the Hyperion School of
Journalism is similar in quality and content to
those offered by its peer institutions.
(E) 	 The proportion of applicants to the Hyperion
School of Journalism that are admitted is lower
than it was ten years ago.

7.	 Speakers of the Caronian language constitute a
minority of the population in several large countries. An
international body has recommended that the regions
where Caronian-speakers live be granted autonomy
as an independent nation in which Caronian-speakers
would form a majority. But Caronian-speakers live in
several, widely scattered areas that cannot be united
within a single continuous boundary while at the same
time allowing Caronian-speakers to be the majority
population. Hence, the recommendation cannot be
satisfied.

3	

3	 3	 3		
3	
9.	 Early pencil leads were made of solid graphite mined
in Cumberland, in Britain. Modern methods of
manufacturing pencil leads from powdered graphite
are the result of research sponsored by the government
of France in the 1790s, when France was at war with
Britain and thus had no access to Cumberland graphite.

Test 2

	

The information above most strongly supports which
one of the following?
(A) 	 The world’s only deposit of graphite suitable for
manufacture of pencils is in Cumberland, in
Britain.
(B) 	 In the 1790s, France’s government did not
know of any accessible source of solid graphite
appropriate to meet France’s need for pencils.
(C) 	 One of the causes of war between France
and Britain in the 1790s was the British
government’s attempt to limit the amount of
Cumberland graphite being exported to France.
(D) 	 Government-sponsored research frequently gives
rise to inventions that are of great benefit to
society.
(E) 	 Even today, all pencil leads contain Cumberland
graphite.

Questions 10-11
	
Commercial passenger airplanes can be equipped with
a collision-avoidance radar system that provides pilots
with information about the proximity of other airplanes.
Because the system warns pilots to take evasive action
when it indicates a possible collision, passengers are safer
on airplanes equipped with the system than on comparable
airplanes not so equipped, even though the system
frequently warns pilots to evade phantom airplanes.
10.	 Which one of the following is an assumption on which
the argument depends?
(A) 	 Passengers feel no safer on airplanes equipped
with the radar system than on comparable
airplanes not so equipped.
(B) 	 Warnings given by a collision-avoidance system
about phantom airplanes are not caused by
distorted radar signals.
(C) 	 The frequency of invalid warnings will not
cause pilots routinely to disregard the system’s
warnings.
(D) 	 Commercial passenger airplanes are not the only
planes that can be equipped with a collision­avoidance system.
(E) 	 The greatest safety risk for passengers traveling
on commercial passenger airplanes is that of a
midair collision.
11.	 Which one of the following, if true, most strengthens
the argument?
(A) 	 Evasive action taken in response to the system’s
warnings poses no risk to the passengers.
(B) 	 Commercial passenger airplanes are in greater
danger of colliding with other airplanes while
on the ground than they are while in flight.
(C) 	 Commercial passenger airplanes are rarely
involved in collisions while in flight.
(D) 	 A study by ground-based air traffic controllers
found that 63 percent of the warnings by the
system were invalid.
(E) 	 The collision-avoidance radar system is run by a
computerized device on the plane that scans the
sky and calculates the distances between planes.
	
GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

3	

3	 3	 3		
3	
12.	 The higher the average fat intake among the residents
of a country, the higher the incidence of cancer in that
country; the lower the average fat intake, the lower the
incidence of cancer. So individuals who want to reduce
their risk of cancer should reduce their fat intake.
	

Which one of the following, if true, most weakens the
argument?

13.	 A local television station is considering a plan to create
a panel of child psychologists to review programs in
advance of their airing and rate the level of violence. A
program that portrays a high level of violence would be
listed in newspapers with four guns after the title. On
the other hand, if a show has little violence, one gun
would appear after its listing. The station believes that
this remedy would forewarn parents about the level of
violence in any given program.
	

Which one of the following must the television station
assume in order to conclude that the plan will meet its
stated purpose?
(A) 	 Parents would read and pay attention to the
ratings listed in the newspapers.
(B) 	 There would be fewer shows rated with one gun
than with four guns.
(C) 	 The rating system described in the passage is the
most effective system available.
(D) 	 The local television station has an obligation
to forewarn parents of the level of violence in
television shows.
(E) 	 Television producers of programs rated as having
high levels of violence would make an effort to
reduce those levels.

	

Which one of the following, if true, most helps explain
the puzzling fact cited above?
(A) 	 Modern tree-dwelling kangaroos must back
down tree trunks slowly and carefully, but
the common ancestors of modern tree- and
land-dwelling kangaroos used their opposable
thumbs to descend trees quickly headfirst.
(B) 	 Modern tree-dwelling kangaroos are smaller
than most modern land-dwelling kangaroos but
larger than their common ancestors.
(C) 	 Modern tree-dwelling kangaroos’ tails cannot
grasp branches, but they are somewhat longer
and more flexible than those of modern land­dwelling kangaroos.
(D) 	 Modern tree-dwelling kangaroos are descended
from species of land-dwelling kangaroos that
had been land-dwellers for many generations
before modern tree-dwelling kangaroos started
to develop.
(E) 	 Modern tree-dwelling kangaroos have smaller
and weaker hind legs than modern landdwelling kangaroos, and they move more
slowly on land than do modern land-dwelling
kangaroos.

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

Test 2

(A) 	 The differences in average fat intake between
countries are often due to the varying makeup of
traditional diets.
(B) 	 The countries with a high average fat intake tend
to be among the wealthiest in the world.
(C) 	 Cancer is a prominent cause of death in countries
with a low average fat intake.
(D) 	 The countries with high average fat intake are
also the countries with the highest levels of
environmental pollution.
(E) 	 An individual resident of a country whose
population has a high average fat intake may
have a diet with a low fat intake.

14.	 The common ancestors of Australian land- and tree-­
dwelling kangaroos had prehensile (grasping) tails and
long opposable thumbs, attributes that are well-adapted
to tree-dwelling but offer kangaroos few advantages
on land. It is hardly surprising, therefore, that landdwelling kangaroos eventually lost these attributes;
what is puzzling is the fact that all modern treedwelling kangaroos now lack them as well.

3	

3	 3	 3		
3	
15. 	Editorialist: Society is obliged to bestow the
privileges of adulthood upon its members
once they are mature enough to accept the
corresponding responsibilities. But science has
established that physiological development is
completed in most persons by age seventeen.
Since this maturing process has been completed
by most seventeen-­year-olds, there is no reason
not to grant these citizens all of the privileges of
adulthood.

Test 2

	

The editorialist’s argument is most vulnerable to
criticism on the ground that it
(A) 	 assumes what it is trying to prove
(B) 	 too hastily reaches a general conclusion on the
basis of a few examples
(C) 	 equivocates with respect to a central concept
(D) 	 too readily accepts a claim by appeal to
inappropriate authority
(E) 	 ignores the fact that some people are mature at
age sixteen

16.	 Every new play that runs for more than three months
is either a commercial or a critical success. Last year,
all new plays that were critical successes were also
commercial successes. Therefore, every new play
that ran for more than three months last year was a
commercial success.
	

The pattern of reasoning in which one of the following
arguments is most similar to that in the argument
above?
(A) 	 Most new restaurants require either good
publicity or a good location in order to succeed.
But most restaurants with a good location also
receive good publicity. Hence, a restaurant that
has a good location is guaranteed to succeed.
(B) 	 Every best-selling cookbook published last year
is both well written and contains beautiful
photographs. The cookbook Cynthia Cleveland
published last year is well written and contains
beautiful photographs. Therefore, Cleveland’s
cookbook is a best seller.
(C) 	 All students at the Freeman School of Cooking
study either desserts or soups in their second
year. This year, all Freeman students studying
soups are also studying desserts. Therefore,
every second-year student at Freeman is
studying desserts this year.
(D) 	 Chefs who become celebrities either open their
own restaurants or write books about their craft,
but not both. John Endicott is a celebrated chef
who opened his own restaurant. Therefore,
Endicott does not write books about his craft.
(E) 	 Every catering service in Woodside Township
will accept both residential and business
catering assignments. Peggy’s Fine Foods is a
catering service that will not accept business
catering assignments. Hence, Peggy’s Fine
Foods is not in Woodside Township.

17. 	Commissioner: I have been incorrectly criticized for
having made my decision on the power plant issue
prematurely. I based my decision on the report
prepared by the neighborhood association and,
although I have not studied it thoroughly, I am
sure that the information it contains is accurate.
Moreover, you may recall that when I received
input from the neighborhood association on jail
relocation, I agreed with its recommendation.
	

The commissioner’s argument is LEAST vulnerable to
which one of the following criticisms?
(A) 	 It takes for granted that the association’s
information is not distorted by bias.
(B) 	 It draws a conclusion about the recommendations
of the association from incomplete
recollections.
(C) 	 It takes for granted that the association’s report
is the only direct evidence that needed to be
considered.
(D) 	 It hastily concludes that the association’s report
is accurate, without having studied it in detail.
(E) 	 It takes for granted that agreeing with
the association’s past recommendation
helps to justify agreeing with its current
recommendation.

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

3	

3	 3	 3		
3	
18.	 Each child in a group of young children read aloud
both a short paragraph and a list of randomly ordered
words from the paragraph. The more experienced
readers among them made fewer pronunciation errors in
whichever task they performed second, whether it was
the list or the paragraph. The order in which the two
tasks were performed, however, had no effect on the
performance of beginning readers, who always made
fewer pronunciation errors when reading the paragraph
than when reading the list.
	

Which one of the following, if true, most helps
to explain why the order in which the tasks were
performed was not significant for the beginning
readers?

	

Which one of the following has a flawed pattern of
reasoning most like that in Martha’s reasoning?
(A) 	 Jeanne is a member of the city chorus, and
the city chorus is renowned. So Jeanne is an
excellent singer.
(B) 	 Rolfe belongs to the library reading group, and
all members of that group are avid readers. So
Rolfe is an avid reader.
(C) 	 Some of Noriko’s sisters are on the debate team,
and some members of the debate team are poor
students. So at least one of Noriko’s sisters must
be a poor student.
(D) 	 Most of Leon’s friends are good swimmers, and
good swimmers are quite strong. So it is likely
that at least some of Leon’s friends are quite
strong.
(E) 	 Many of Teresa’s colleagues have written books.
Most of the books they have written are on good
writing. So some of Teresa’s colleagues are
good writers.

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.
19. 	Anthropologist: Violence is an extreme form of
aggression, and is distinct from the self-expression
sufficient for survival under normal conditions.
Human beings in certain situations react to
unpleasant stimuli with violence—but only
because they are conditioned by their culture to
react in this manner.
	

Each of the following can be logically inferred from the
anthropologist’s statements EXCEPT:
(A) 	 Not all aggression is violent.
(B) 	 The self-expression required for survival is
generally nonaggressive.
(C) 	 Some behaviors are influenced by the cultures in
which human beings live.
(D) 	 In normal circumstances, human beings can
survive by responding nonviolently.
(E) 	 Violent behavior is a product of one’s cultural
environment.

Test 2

(A) 	 Because several words were used more than once
in the paragraph but only once in the list, the list
was shorter than the paragraph.
(B) 	 In reading the paragraph, the more experienced
readers were better at using context to guess at
difficult words than were the beginning readers.
(C) 	 The more experienced readers sounded out
difficult words, while the beginning readers
relied solely on context to guess at difficult
words.
(D) 	 Both tasks used the same words, so that the
words the children read in whichever task was
performed first would be recognized in the
second task.
(E) 	 The beginning readers made more pronunciation
errors than the more experienced readers did in
reading both the paragraph and the list.

20.	 Martha’s friend, who is very knowledgeable about
edible flowers, told Martha that there are no edible
daisies, at least not any that are palatable. Martha,
however, reasons that since there are daisies that are
a kind of chrysanthemum and since there are edible
chrysanthemums that are quite palatable, what her
friend told her must be incorrect.

3	

3	 3	 3		
3	
21. 	Attorney for Ziegler: My client continued to do
consulting work between the time of his arrest
for attempted murder and the start of this trial.
But I contend that Ziegler was insane at the time
that he fired the shot. This is the only reasonable
conclusion to draw from the fact that the accusers
have submitted no evidence that he was sane at the
time he pulled the trigger, only that he was sane
some time after he did so.
	

Which one of the following most accurately describes a
flaw in the reasoning of Ziegler’s attorney?

Test 2

(A) 	 It presumes that being a well-educated
professional is relevant to being guilty or
innocent.
(B) 	 It concludes on the basis of evidence against
Ziegler’s being sane that there is a lack of
evidence for Ziegler’s being sane.
(C) 	 It fails to consider that Ziegler might have been
insane when he worked as a consultant.
(D) 	 It presumes that whether one is sane is relevant
to whether one is morally responsible for one’s
actions.
(E) 	 It fails to consider the possibility that Ziegler’s
being sane after the shooting is an indication
that he was sane at the time of the shooting.
22.	 Most students are bored by history courses as they are
usually taught, primarily because a large amount of
time is spent teaching dates and statistics. The best way
to teach history, therefore, is to spend most class time
recounting the lives of historical figures and very little
on dates and statistics.
	

Each of the following is an assumption on which the
argument depends EXCEPT:
(A) 	 One should avoid boring one’s students when
teaching a history course.
(B) 	 It is not incompatible with the attainable goals of
teaching history to spend very little class time
on dates and statistics.
(C) 	 It is possible to recount the lives of historical
figures without referring to dates and statistics.
(D) 	 It is compatible with the attainable goals of
teaching history to spend most class time
recounting the lives of historical figures.
(E) 	 Students are more bored by history courses as
they are usually taught than they would be by
courses that spend most class time recounting
the lives of historical figures.

23.	 In a certain municipality, a judge overturned a suspect’s
conviction for possession of an illegal weapon. The
suspect had fled upon seeing police and subsequently
discarded the illegal weapon after the police gave chase.
The judge reasoned as follows: the only cause for the
police giving chase was the suspect’s flight; by itself,
flight from the police does not create a reasonable
suspicion of a criminal act; evidence collected during
an illegal chase is inadmissible; therefore, the evidence
in this case was inadmissible.
	

Which one of the following principles, if valid, most
helps to justify the judge’s decision that the evidence
was inadmissible?
(A) 	 Flight from the police could create a reasonable
suspicion of a criminal act as long as other
significant factors are involved.
(B) 	 People can legally flee from the police only
when those people are not involved in a criminal
act at the time.
(C) 	 Police can legally give chase to a person only
when the person’s actions have created a
reasonable suspicion of a criminal act.
(D) 	 Flight from the police should not itself be
considered a criminal act.
(E) 	 In all cases in which a person’s actions have
created a reasonable suspicion of a criminal act,
police can legally give chase to that person.

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

3	

3	 3	 3		
3	
Questions 24-25
Monica: The sculpture commissioned for our town plaza
has been scorned by the public ever since it went up.
But since the people in our town do not know very
much about contemporary art, the unpopularity of
the work says nothing about its artistic merit and thus
gives no reason for removing it.
Hector: You may be right about what the sculpture’s
popularity means about its artistic merit. However, a
work of art that was commissioned for a public space
ought to benefit the public, and popular opinion is
ultimately the only way of determining what the public
feels is to its benefit. Thus, if public opinion of this
sculpture is what you say, then it certainly ought to be
removed.

(A) 	 Public opinion of a work of art is an important
consideration in determining the work’s artistic
merit.
(B) 	 Works of art commissioned for public spaces
ought at least to have sufficient artistic merit to
benefit the public.
(C) 	 The only reason for removing a work of art
commissioned for a public space would be that
the balance of public opinion is against the
work.
(D) 	 The sculpture cannot benefit the public by
remaining in the town plaza unless the sculpture
has artistic merit.
(E) 	 In determining whether the sculpture should
remain in the town plaza, the artistic merit of
the sculpture should be a central consideration.
25.	 The argument Hector makes in responding to Monica
depends on the assumption that
(A) 	 no matter what the public’s opinion is on an issue
affecting the public good, that public opinion
ought to be acted on, even though the opinion
may not be a knowledgeable one
(B) 	 Monica’s assessment of the public’s opinion of
the sculpture is accurate
(C) 	 if the sculpture had artistic merit, then even
a public that was not knowledgeable about
modern art would not scorn the sculpture
(D) 	 works of art commissioned for public spaces
ought not to be expected to have artistic merit
(E) 	 if the public feels that it does not benefit from the
sculpture, this shows that the public does not in
fact benefit from the sculpture

S T O P

IF YOU FINISH BEFORE TIME IS CALLED, YOU MAY CHECK YOUR WORK ON THIS SECTION ONLY.
DO NOT WORK ON ANY OTHER SECTION IN THE TEST.

Test 2

24.	 Monica’s and Hector’s statements commit them
to disagreeing about which one of the following
principles?

4	

4	4	4	4	
SECTION IV
Time—35 minutes
26 Questions

Test 2

Directions: The questions in this section are based on the reasoning contained in brief statements or passages. For some questions,
more than one of the choices could conceivably answer the question. However, you are to choose the best answer; that is, the
response that most accurately and completely answers the question. You should not make assumptions that are by commonsense
standards implausible, superfluous, or incompatible with the passage. After you have chosen the best answer, blacken the
corresponding space on your answer sheet.
1.	 “Hot spot” is a term that ecologists use to describe
those habitats with the greatest concentrations of
species found only in one place—so-called “endemic”
species. Many of these hot spots are vulnerable
to habitat loss due to commercial development.
Furthermore, loss of endemic species accounts for most
modern-day extinctions. Thus, given that only a limited
number of environmental battles can be waged, it would
be reasonable for organizations dedicated to preserving
species to _________.
	

3.	 Engine noise from boats travelling through killer
whales’ habitats ranges in frequency from 100 hertz to
3,000 hertz, an acoustical range that overlaps that in
which the whales communicate through screams and
squeals. Though killer whales do not seem to behave
differently around running boat engines, engine noise
from boats can be loud enough to damage their hearing
over time. Therefore, _________.
	

Which one of the following most logically completes
the argument?

Which one of the following most logically completes
the argument?

(A)	

(A)	

(B)	

(B)	
(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

try to help only those species who are threatened
with extinction because of habitat loss
concentrate their resources on protecting hot spot
habitats
treat all endemic species as equally valuable and
equally in need of preservation
accept that most endemic species will become
extinct
expand the definition of “hot spot” to include
vulnerable habitats that are not currently home
to many endangered species

2.	 Principle: If you sell an item that you know to be
defective, telling the buyer that the item is sound,
you thereby commit fraud.
	

Application: Wilton sold a used bicycle to Harris,
knowing very little about its condition. Wilton
told Harris that the bicycle was in good working
condition, but Harris soon learned that the brakes
were defective. Wilton was therefore guilty of
fraud.

	

The application of the principle is most vulnerable to
criticism on the grounds that
(A)	
(B)	
(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

the application fails to establish whether Wilton
was given the opportunity to repair the brakes
the application fails to indicate how much money
Wilton received for the bicycle
the application uses the word “defective” in a
sense that is crucially different from how it is
used in the statement of the principle
Harris might not have believed Wilton’s
statement about the bicycle’s condition
asserting something without justification is not
the same as asserting something one knows to
be false

(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

younger killer whales are better able to tolerate
engine noise from boats than older whales are
killer whales are less likely to attempt to
communicate with one another when boat
engines are operating nearby
noise from boat engines may impair killer
whales’ ability to communicate
killer whales are most likely to prefer areas
where boat traffic is present, but light
killer whales would probably be more successful
in finding food if boats did not travel through
their habitats

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

4

4	

4	4	4	4	
4.	 Journalist: A manufacturers’ trade group that has long
kept its membership list secret inadvertently sent
me a document listing hundreds of manufacturing
companies. A representative of the trade group
later confirmed that every company listed in the
document does indeed belong to the trade group.
Because Bruch Industries is not listed on the
document, it is evidently not a member of the
trade group.
	

6.	 Local resident: An overabundance of algae must be
harmful to the smaller fish in this pond. During
the fifteen or so years that I have lived here,
the few times that I have seen large numbers
of dead small fish wash ashore in late summer
coincide exactly with the times that I have noticed
abnormally large amounts of algae in the water.
	

The journalist’s reasoning in the argument is flawed in
that the journalist
(A)	
(B)	
(C)	

(E)	

The local resident’s argument is most vulnerable to
criticism on the grounds that it
(A)	

gives no reason to think that Bruch Industries
would want to belong to the trade group
does not present any evidence that the document
names every member of the trade group
does not explain how it is that the trade group
could have inadvertently sent out a secret
document
presents no reason why Bruch Industries would
not want its membership in the trade group to be
known
takes for granted the accuracy of a statement by
a representative who had a reason to withhold
information

(B)	
(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

presumes, without providing justification, that
smaller fish are somehow more susceptible to
harm as a result of overabundant algae than are
larger fish
fails to consider that the effects on smaller fish of
overabundant algae may be less severe in larger
bodies of water with more diverse ecosystems
ignores the possibility that the same cause might
have different effects on fish of different sizes
ignores the possibility that the overabundance
of algae and the deaths of smaller fish are
independent effects of a common cause
ignores the possibility that below-normal
amounts of algae are detrimental to the pond’s
smaller fish

5.	 Peter: Unlike in the past, most children’s stories
nowadays don’t have clearly immoral characters
in them. They should, though. Children need to
learn the consequences of being bad.
	
	
Yoko: Children’s stories still tend to have clearly
immoral characters in them, but now these
characters tend not to be the sort that frighten
children. Surely that’s an improvement.

7.	 Tanner: The public should demand political debates
before any election. Voters are better able to
choose the candidate best suited for office if they
watch the candidates seriously debate one another.
	

Saldana: Political debates almost always benefit the
candidate who has the better debating skills. Thus,
they don’t really help voters determine which
candidate is most qualified for office.

	

	

The dialogue provides the most support for the claim
that Tanner and Saldana disagree over which one of the
following?

Peter and Yoko disagree over whether today’s children’s
stories
(A)	
(B)	
(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

should be less frightening than they are
tend to be less frightening than earlier children’s
stories were
differ significantly in overall quality from earlier
children’s stories
tend to have clearly immoral characters in them
should help children learn the consequences of
being bad

(A)	
(B)	
(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

Political candidates with strong debating skills
are more likely to win elections than those with
weak debating skills.
A voter who watches a political debate will
likely be better able, as a result, to determine
which candidate is more qualified for office.
Debating skills are of little use to politicians in
doing their jobs once they are elected to office.
The candidates with the best debating skills are
the ones who are most qualified for the political
offices for which they are running.
Political debates tend to have a major effect on
which candidate among those participating in a
debate will win the election.

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

Test 2

(D)	

4

4	

4	4	4	4	
8.	 A recent study shows that those highways that carry the
most traffic, and thus tend to be the most congested,
have the lowest rate of fatal traffic accidents.
	

Which one of the following, if true, most helps to
explain the phenomenon described above?
(A)	
(B)	
(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

Drivers have more accidents when they become
distracted.
The highways that have the highest rate of fatal
accidents have moderate volumes of traffic.
Most of the motorists on very heavily traveled
highways tend to be commuting to or from
work.
Most serious accidents occur when vehicles are
moving at a high rate of speed.
Heavily traveled highways do not always carry a
higher proportion of large trucks.

10.	 People often admonish us to learn the lessons of
history, but, even if it were easy to discover what the
past was really like, it is nearly impossible to discover
its lessons. We are supposed, for example, to learn the
lessons of World War I. But what are they? And were
we ever to discover what they are, it is not clear that we
could ever apply them, for we shall never again have a
situation just like World War I.
	

That we should learn the lessons of history figures in
the argument in which one of the following ways?
(A)	
(B)	
(C)	

Test 2

(D)	
9.	 In some jurisdictions, lawmakers have instituted
sentencing guidelines that mandate a penalty for
theft that is identical to the one they have mandated
for bribery. Hence, lawmakers in those jurisdictions
evidently consider the harm resulting from theft to be
equal to the harm resulting from bribery.
	

Which one of the following, if true, would most
strengthen the argument?
(A)	
(B)	
(C)	

(D)	
(E)	

In general, lawmakers mandate penalties for
crimes that are proportional to the harm they
believe to result from those crimes.
In most cases, lawmakers assess the level of
harm resulting from an act in determining
whether to make that act illegal.
Often, in response to the unusually great harm
resulting from a particular instance of a crime,
lawmakers will mandate an increased penalty
for that crime.
In most cases, a victim of theft is harmed no
more than a victim of bribery is harmed.
If lawmakers mandate penalties for crimes
that are proportional to the harm resulting
from those crimes, crime in those lawmakers’
jurisdictions will be effectively deterred.

(E)	

It sets out a problem the argument as a whole is
designed to resolve.
It is compatible with accepting the argument’s
conclusion and with denying it.
It is a position that the argument simply takes for
granted is false.
It expresses the position the argument as a whole
is directed toward discrediting.
It is an assumption that is required in order to
establish the argument’s conclusion.

11.	 Sigerson argues that the city should adopt ethical
guidelines that preclude its politicians from accepting
campaign contributions from companies that do
business with the city. Sigerson’s proposal is dishonest,
however, because he has taken contributions from such
companies throughout his career in city politics.
	

The reasoning in the argument is most vulnerable to
criticism on the grounds that the argument
(A)	

(B)	
(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

confuses a sufficient condition for adopting
ethical guidelines for politicians with a
necessary condition for adopting such
guidelines
rejects a proposal on the grounds that an
inadequate argument has been given for it
fails to adequately address the possibility that
other city politicians would resist Sigerson’s
proposal
rejects a proposal on the grounds that the person
offering it is unfamiliar with the issues it raises
overlooks the fact that Sigerson’s proposal
would apply only to the future conduct of city
politicians

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

4

4	

4	4	4	4	
12.	 Some gardening books published by Garden Path Press
recommend tilling the soil and adding compost before
starting a new garden on a site, but they do not explain
the difference between hot and cold composting. Since
any gardening book that recommends adding compost
is flawed if it does not explain at least the basics of
composting, some books published by Garden Path are
flawed.
	

(B)	
(C)	

(E)	

some gardening books that recommend tilling
the soil and adding compost before starting a
new garden are not flawed
gardeners should not add compost to the soil
unless they have a thorough understanding of
composting
an explanation of the basics of composting
must include an explanation of the difference
between hot and cold composting
everyone who understands the difference
between hot and cold composting understands
at least the basics of composting
no gardening book that includes an explanation
of at least the basics of composting is flawed

13.	 Astronomers have found new evidence that the
number of galaxies in the universe is not 10 billion, as
previously believed, but 50 billion. This discovery will
have an important effect on theories about how galaxies
are formed. But even though astronomers now believe
40 billion more galaxies exist, many astronomers’
estimates of the universe’s total mass remain virtually
unchanged.
Which one of the following, if true, does most to
explain why the estimates remain virtually unchanged?
(A)	
(B)	
(C)
(D)	
(E)	

Which one of the following most accurately
expresses a flaw in the argument’s reasoning?

The mass of galaxies is thought to make up only
a tiny percentage of the universe’s total mass.
The overwhelming majority of galaxies are so far
from Earth that their mass can be only roughly
estimated.
The number of galaxies that astronomers believe
exist tends to grow as the instruments used to
detect galaxies become more sophisticated.
Theories about how galaxies are formed are
rarely affected by estimates of the universe’s
total mass.
There is no consensus among astronomers on the
proper procedures for estimating the universe’s
total mass.

(A)	
(B)	

(C)	

(D)	
(E)	

it repudiates a claim merely on the grounds that
an inadequate argument has been given for it
it treats a change that is required for virtual
elimination of society’s most vexing social
ills as a change that will guarantee the virtual
elimination of those ills
it fails to consider that, even if an argument’s
conclusion is false, some of the assumptions
used to justify that conclusion may nonetheless
be true
it distorts the opponent’s argument and then
attacks this distorted argument
it uses the key term “government” in one sense in
a premise and in another sense in the conclusion

15. Columnist: Shortsighted motorists learn the hard way
about the wisdom of preventive auto maintenance;
such maintenance almost always pays off in the
long run. Our usually shortsighted city council
should be praised for using similar wisdom when
they hired a long-term economic development
adviser. In hiring this adviser, the council made
an investment that is likely to have a big payoff
in several years. Other cities in this region that
have devoted resources to economic development
planning have earned large returns on such an
investment.
	

Which one of the following, if true, most weakens the
columnist’s argument?
(A)	
(B)	

(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

Even some cars that receive regular preventive
maintenance break down, requiring costly
repairs.
The columnist’s city has a much smaller
population and economy than the other cities
did when they began devoting resources to
economic development planning.
Most motorists who fail to perform preventive
maintenance on their cars do so for nonfinancial
reasons.
Qualified economic development advisers
generally demand higher salaries than many city
councils are willing to spend.
Cities that have earned large returns due to hiring
economic development advisers did not earn
any returns at all in the advisers’ first few years
of employment.
GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

Test 2

(D)	

	

14. Newspaper subscriber: Arnot’s editorial argues that
by making certain fundamental changes in
government we would virtually eliminate our most
vexing social ills. But clearly this conclusion is
false. After all, the argument Arnot makes for this
claim depends on the dubious assumption that
government can be trusted to act in the interest of
the public.

The argument requires the assumption that
(A)	

4

4	

4	4	4	4	
16.	 Editorial: Cell-phone usage on buses and trains is
annoying to other passengers. This suggests that
recent proposals to allow use of cell phones on
airplanes are ill-advised. Cell-phone use would be
far more upsetting on airplanes than it is on buses
and trains. Airline passengers are usually packed
in tightly. And if airline passengers are offended
by the cell-phone excesses of their seatmates, they
often cannot move to another seat.
	

Which one of the following most accurately describes
the role played in the editorial’s argument by the
statement that cell-phone use would be far more
upsetting on airplanes than it is on buses and trains?
(A)	
(C)	

Test 2

(D)	
(E)	

It is the main conclusion of the argument. (B)	
It is a claim that the argument tries to rebut.
It is a premise that indirectly supports the main
conclusion of the argument by supporting a
premise for that conclusion.
It is a conclusion for which support is provided
and that itself is used in turn to directly support
the argument’s main conclusion.
It provides background information that plays no
role in the reasoning in the argument.

17.	 Science writer: The deterioration of cognitive faculties
associated with Alzheimer’s disease is evidently
caused by the activities of microglia—the
brain’s own immune cells. For one thing, this
deterioration can be slowed by some antiinflammatory drugs, such as acetylsalicylic acid.
Furthermore, patients with Alzheimer’s are unable
to eliminate the protein BA from the brain, where
it accumulates and forms deposits. The microglia
attack these protein deposits by releasing poisons
that destroy surrounding healthy brain cells,
thereby impairing the brain’s cognitive functions.
	

18.	 Lawyer: One is justified in accessing information in
computer files without securing authorization
from the computer’s owner only if the computer
is typically used in the operation of a business.
If, in addition, there exist reasonable grounds
for believing that such a computer contains data
usable as evidence in a legal proceeding against
the computer’s owner, then accessing the data
in those computer files without the owner’s
authorization is justified.
	

The principles stated by the lawyer most strongly
support which one of the following judgments?
(A)	

(B)	

(C)	

(D)	

Which one of the following, if true, most helps to
support the science writer’s argument?
(A)	
(B)	
(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

The inability of Alzheimer’s patients to eliminate
the protein BA from the brain is due to a
deficiency in the brain’s immune system.
Acetylsalicylic acid reduces the production of
immune cells in the brain.
The activity of microglia results in a decrease in
the buildup of protein deposits in the brain.
The protein BA directly interferes with the
cognitive functions of the brain.
Immune reactions by microglia occur in certain
diseases of the brain other than Alzheimer’s.

(E)	

Rey gave his friend Sunok a key to the store
where he worked and asked her to use the store
owners’ computer to look up their friend Jim’s
phone number, which Rey kept on the computer.
Because Sunok had Rey’s permission, her
action was justified.
Police department investigators accessed the
electronic accounting files of the central
computer owned by a consulting firm that was
on trial for fraudulent business practices without
seeking permission from the firm’s owners.
Contrary to the investigators’ reasonable
beliefs, however, the files ultimately provided
no evidence of wrongdoing. Nevertheless, the
investigators’ action was justified.
A police officer accessed, without Natalie’s
permission, files on the computer that Natalie
owned and used exclusively in the operation of
her small business. Since the police officer’s
search of the files on Natalie’s computer
produced no evidence usable in any legal
proceeding against Natalie, the police officer’s
action was clearly not justified.
Customs officials examined all of the files stored
on a laptop computer confiscated from an
importer whom they suspected of smuggling.
Because there were reasonable grounds for
believing that the computer had typically
been used in the operation of the importer’s
legitimate business, the customs officials’ action
was justified.
Against the company owner’s wishes, a police
officer accessed some of the files on one of the
company’s computers. Although the computer
was typically used in the operation of the
company’s business, the particular files accessed
by the police officer were personal letters
written by one of the company’s employees.
Thus, the police officer’s unauthorized use of
the computer was not justified.

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

4

4	

4	4	4	4	
19.	 The conventional process for tanning leather uses large
amounts of calcium oxide and sodium sulfide. Tanning
leather using biological catalysts costs about the same
as using these conventional chemicals if the cost of
waste disposal is left out of the comparison. However,
nearly 20 percent less waste is produced with biological
catalysts, and waste disposal is a substantial part of the
overall cost of tanning. It is therefore less costly to tan
leather if biological catalysts are used instead.
	

Which one of the following is an assumption required
by the argument?
(A)	
(B)	
(C)	

(E)	

20.	 One should not play a practical joke on someone if it
shows contempt for that person or if one believes it
might bring significant harm to that person.
	

21.	 Economics professor: Marty’s Pizza and Checkers
Pizza are the two major pizza parlors in our town.
Marty’s sold coupon books including coupons
good for one large plain pizza at any local pizza
parlor, at Marty’s expense. But Checkers refused
to accept these coupons, even though they
were redeemed by all other local pizza parlors.
Accepting them would have cost Checkers nothing
and would have satisfied those of its potential
customers who had purchased the coupon books.
This shows that Checkers’s motive in refusing to
accept the coupons was simply to hurt Marty’s
Pizza.
	

Which one of the following, if assumed, enables the
economics professor’s conclusion to be properly
drawn?
(A)	

(B)	

(C)	

(D)	

The principle stated above, if valid, most helps to justify
the reasoning in which one of the following arguments?
(A)	

(B)	

(C)	

(D)	

(E)	

I should not have played that practical joke on
you yesterday. Even if it was not contemptuous,
I should have realized that it would bring
significant harm to someone.
I have no reason to think that the practical joke I
want to play would harm anyone. So, since the
joke would show no contempt for the person the
joke is played on, it would not be wrong for me
to play it.
Because of the circumstances, it would be wrong
for me to play the practical joke I had intended
to play on you. Even though it would not show
contempt for anyone, it could easily bring you
significant harm.
It would have been wrong for me to play the
practical joke that I had intended to play on you.
Even though I did not have reason to think that
it would significantly harm anyone, I did think
that it would show contempt for someone.
Someone was harmed as a result of my practical
joke. Thus, even though it did not show
contempt for the person I played the joke on, I
should not have played it.

(E)	

Any company that refuses to accept coupons
issued by a competitor when doing so would
satisfy some of the company’s potential
customers is motivated solely by the desire to
hurt that competitor.
Any company that wishes to hurt a competitor
by refusing to accept coupons issued by that
competitor will refuse to accept them even
when accepting them would cost nothing and
would satisfy its potential customers.
At least one company has refused to accept
coupons issued by its major local competitor
simply in order to hurt that competitor, even
though those coupons were accepted by all
other local competitors.
Any company that accepts its major competitor’s
coupons helps its competitor by doing so, even
if it also satisfies its own actual or potential
customers.
If accepting coupons issued by a competitor
would not enable a company to satisfy its actual
or potential customers, then that company’s
refusal to accept the coupons is motivated by
the desire to satisfy customers.

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

Test 2

(D)	

Leather tanned using the conventional process is
not lower in quality than is leather tanned using
biological catalysts.
The biological catalysts that can be used in the
tanning process are less costly by weight than
are calcium oxide and sodium sulfide.
New technological innovations have recently
made the use of biological catalysts in the
tanning process much more cost effective.
Disposal of tanning waste produced with
biological catalysts does not cost significantly
more than disposal of the same amount of waste
produced with the conventional process.
The labor costs associated with tanning leather
using biological catalysts are not any greater
than the labor costs associated with the
conventional tanning process.

4

4	

4	4	4	4	
22.	 Science writer: Scientists’ astounding success rate
with research problems they have been called
upon to solve causes the public to believe falsely
that science can solve any problem. In fact, the
problems scientists are called upon to solve are
typically selected by scientists themselves. When
the problems are instead selected by politicians or
business leaders, their formulation is nevertheless
guided by scientists in such a way as to make
scientific solutions feasible. Scientists are almost
never asked to solve problems that are not subject
to such formulation.
	

	

(B)	
(C)	
(D)	

(E)	

The pattern of flawed reasoning in which one of the
following arguments is most similar to that in the
argument above?
(A)	

The science writer’s statements, if true, most strongly
support which one of the following?
(A)	

Test 2

23.	 Most auto mechanics have extensive experience.
Furthermore, most mechanics with extensive experience
understand electronic circuits. Thus, most auto
mechanics understand electronic circuits.

(B)	

If a problem can be formulated in such a way as
to make a scientific solution feasible, scientists
will usually be called upon to solve that
problem.
Any problem a scientist can solve can be
formulated in such a way as to make a scientific
solution feasible.
Scientists would probably have a lower success
rate with research problems if their grounds for
selecting such problems were less narrow.
Most of the problems scientists are called
upon to solve are problems that politicians
and business leaders want solved, but whose
formulation the scientists have helped to guide.
The only reason for the astounding success rate
of science is that the problems scientists are
called upon to solve are usually selected by the
scientists themselves.

(C)	

(D)	

(E)	

During times of the year when automobile traffic
increases, gas prices also increase. Increases
in gas prices lead to increases in consumer
complaints. Thus, increased automobile traffic
causes increased consumer complaints.
The most common species of birds in this region
are migratory. Moreover, most migratory birds
have left this region by the end of November.
Hence, few birds remain in this region during
the winter.
It is not surprising that most speeding tickets in
this region are issued to drivers of sports cars.
After all, most drivers who are not interested in
driving fast do not buy sports cars.
Most nature photographers find portrait
photography boring. Moreover, most portrait
photographers especially enjoy photographing
dignitaries. Thus, most nature photographers
find photographing dignitaries especially
boring.
Most snow-removal companies run lawncare services during the summer. Also, most
companies that run lawn-care services during
the summer hire additional workers in the
summer. Thus, most snow-removal companies
hire additional workers in the summer.

24. If one wants to succeed, then one should act as though
one were genuinely confident about one’s abilities, even
if one actually distrusts one’s skills. Success is much
more easily obtained by those who genuinely believe
themselves capable of succeeding than by those filled
with self-doubts.
	

Which one of the following statements, if true, most
strengthens the argument?
(A)	
(B)	
(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

Those who convince others that they are capable
of succeeding usually have few self-doubts.
Genuine confidence is often a by-product of
pretended self-confidence.
Success is usually more a matter of luck or
determination than of skill.
Many people who behave in a self-confident
manner are genuinely confident about their
abilities.
Self-doubt can hamper as well as aid the
development of the skills necessary for success.

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

4

4	

4	4	4	4	
25.	 Journalist: The trade union members at AutoFaber
Inc. are planning to go on strike. Independent
arbitration would avert a strike, but only if
both sides agree to accept the arbitrator’s
recommendations as binding. However, based
on past experience, the union is quite unlikely to
agree to this, so a strike is likely.
	

Which one of the following arguments exhibits a
pattern of reasoning most similar to that exhibited by
the journalist’s argument?
(A)	

(B)	

(D)	

(E)	

26. Acquiring complete detailed information about all the
pros and cons of a product one might purchase would
clearly be difficult and expensive. It is rational not
to acquire such information unless one expects that
the benefits of doing so will outweigh the cost and
difficulty of doing so. Therefore, consumers who do not
bother to acquire such information are thereby behaving
rationally.
	

The conclusion of the argument is properly drawn if
which one of the following is assumed?
(A)	

(B)	
(C)	
(D)	

(E)	

Rational consumers who do not expect that the
benefits outweigh the cost and difficulty of
acquiring detailed information about a product
they might purchase usually do not bother to
acquire such information.
Whenever it is rational not to acquire detailed
information about a product, it would be
irrational to bother to acquire such information.
The benefits of acquiring detailed information
about a product one might purchase usually do
not outweigh the cost and difficulty of doing so.
Rational consumers usually expect that the
benefits of acquiring detailed information
about a product they might purchase would not
outweigh the cost and difficulty of doing so.
Consumers who do not bother to acquire
complete detailed information about a product
they might purchase do not expect that the
benefits of acquiring such information will
outweigh the cost and difficulty of doing so.

S T O P
IF YOU FINISH BEFORE TIME IS CALLED, YOU MAY CHECK YOUR WORK ON THIS SECTION ONLY.
DO NOT WORK ON ANY OTHER SECTION IN THE TEST.

Test 2

(C)	

The company will downsize unless more stock is
issued. Furthermore, if the company downsizes,
the shareholders will demand a change. Since
no more stock is being issued, we can be sure
that the shareholders will demand a change.
Rodriguez will donate her paintings to the
museum only if the new wing is named after
her. The only other person the new wing could
be named after is the museum’s founder, Wu.
But it was decided yesterday that the gardens,
not the new wing, would be named after Wu.
So Rodriguez will donate her paintings to the
museum.
Reynolds and Khripkova would not make
suitable business partners, since they are
constantly squabbling, whereas good business
partners know how to get along with each other
most of the time and, if they quarrel, know how
to resolve their differences.
Lopez will run in tomorrow’s marathon. Lopez
will win the marathon only if his sponsors do
a good job of keeping him hydrated. But his
sponsors are known to be poor at keeping their
athletes hydrated. So it is probable that Lopez
will not win the marathon.
The new course in microeconomics is offered
either in the fall or in the spring. The new
course will be offered in the spring if there
is a qualified instructor available. Since the
economics department currently lacks a
qualified instructor for such courses, however,
the course will not be offered in the spring.

4

5

5

5

5

5

SECTION V
Time—35 minutes
27 Questions

Test 2

Directions: Each set of questions in this section is based on a single passage or a pair of passages. The questions are to be
answered on the basis of what is stated or implied in the passage or pair of passages. For some of the questions, more than one
of the choices could conceivably answer the question. However, you are to choose the best answer; that is, the response that most
accurately and completely answers the question, and blacken the corresponding space on your answer sheet.
		 Determining the most effective way to deter
	
deliberate crimes, such as fraud, as opposed to impulsive
	
crimes, such as crimes of passion, is a problem currently
	
being debated in the legal community. On one side of
(5) 	 the debate are those scholars who believe that
	
deliberate crimes are a product of the influence of
	
societal norms and institutions on individuals. These
	
scholars suggest that changing people’s beliefs about
	
crime, increasing the access of the most economically
(10) 	 alienated individuals to economic institutions, and
	
rehabilitating those convicted of this type of crime will
	
reduce the crime rate. On the other side are those legal
	
scholars who believe that the decision to commit a
	
deliberate crime is primarily the result of individual
(15) 	 choice. They suggest that increasing the fines and
	
penalties associated with criminal activity, along with
	
efficacious law enforcement, is the best deterrence
	
method. However, some recent legal scholarship has
	
changed the nature of this debate by introducing an
(20) 	 economic principle that shows that these two
	
positions, far from being antithetical, are surprisingly
	complementary.
		 The economic principle that reconciles the two
	
positions is that of utility maximization, which holds
(25) 	 that, given a choice of actions, rational individuals will
	
choose the action that maximizes their anticipated
	
overall satisfaction, or expected utility. The expected
	
utility of an action is ascertained by determining the
	
utilities of the possible outcomes of that action,
(30) 	 weighing them according to the likelihood of each
	
outcome’s coming to pass, and then adding up those
	
weighted utilities. Using this economic framework, an
	
individual’s decision to commit a crime can be analyzed
	
as a rational economic choice.
(35) 		 According to the utility maximization principle a
	
person who responds rationally to economic incentives
	
or disincentives will commit a crime if the expected
	
utility from doing so, given the chance of getting caught,
	
exceeds the expected utility from activity that is
(40) 	 lawful. Within this framework the two crime-deterrence
	
methods have the same overall effect. For instance, the
	
recommendations on one side of the crime deterrence
	
debate to increase penalties for crimes and strengthen
	
law enforcement result in an increased likelihood of
(45) 	 detection and punishment and impose an increased
	
cost to the individual if detected and punished. This
	
lowers the expected utility from criminal activity,
	
thereby making a person less likely to choose to
	
commit a deliberate crime. The recommendations on
(50) 	 the other side of the debate, such as increasing the

	
	
	
	
(55) 	
	
	
	
	

economic opportunities of individuals most alienated
from economic institutions, also affect the utility
equation. All else being equal, enacting these types
of policies will effectively increase the expected
utility from lawful activity. This economic analysis
demonstrates that the two positions are not
fundamentally in conflict, and that the optimal
approach to crime deterrence would include elements
of both deterrence strategies.

1.	 Which one of the following most accurately states the
main point of the passage?
(A)	 The principle of utility maximization provides
an economic framework that allows legal
scholars to analyze an individual’s decision to
commit a crime as a rational economic choice
that maximizes that individual’s expected utility.
(B)	 Legal scholars have found that deliberate
criminal acts are motivated by neither external
influences nor individual choices alone but that
instead both of these factors are important in
the decision to commit a crime.
(C)	 The utility maximization principle can be
used to quantify the effects both of methods
of deterrence that revolve around individual
factors and of those that emphasize the impact
of societal norms on the decision to commit a
deliberate crime.
(D)	 Introduction of the utility maximization principle
into the current crime deterrence debate
indicates that both sides in the debate offer
useful recommendations that can work together
in deterring deliberate crime.
(E)	 The utility maximization principle demonstrates
that deliberate criminal acts are the result of
the rational economic choices of individuals
and are not influenced by societal norms
or the policies and practices of societal
institutions.

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

5

5

2.	 The author mentions “crimes of passion” in line 3
primarily in order to
(A)	 give an example of a kind of deliberate crime
(B)	 provide a contrast that helps to define a
deliberate crime
(C)	 demonstrate that not all crimes can be deterred
(D)	 help illustrate one side of the current debate in
the legal community
(E)	 mention a crime that is a product of the
influence of societal norms
3.	 The explanation of the utility maximization principle
in the passage suggests that which one of the following
would be least appropriately described as a rational
response to economic incentives and disincentives?

5

5

4.	 Based on the passage, which one of the following
scenarios is most similar to some legal scholars’ use of
the utility maximization principle regarding the crime
deterrence debate?
(A)	 an astronomer’s use of a paradox employed by
certain ancient cosmologists as a metaphor to
help describe a phenomenon recently observed
with the aid of new technologies
(B)	 a drawing instructor’s use of a law of optics
from physics to demonstrate that two lines that
appear to diverge actually run parallel to each
other
(C)	 a botanist’s use of a quotation from a legendary
Olympic athlete to make a point about the
competitive nature of plants in a forest
(D)	 a judge’s use of evidence from anthropology to
support a decision in a controversial legal case
(E)	 a mediator’s use of a short quotation from a
well-known novel in an attempt to set a tone
of collegiality and good conduct at the start of
a bargaining session
5.	 Which one of the following most accurately describes
the organization of the passage?
(A)	 Two sides of a debate are described and a
general principle is used to resolve the conflict
between them.
(B)	 Two sides of a debate are described and an
economic principle is applied to decide
between them.
(C)	 Two beliefs are described and a principle is
introduced to discredit them.
(D)	 A general principle is described and instantiated
by two different ways of solving a problem.
(E)	 A general principle is described and used to
highlight the differences between two sides in
a debate.
6.	 The passage suggests that the author would be
likely to agree with each of the following statements
EXCEPT:
(A)	 The rate at which criminals return to criminal
activity is likely to fall if laws requiring stronger
punishments for repeat offenders are adopted.
(B)	 The rate at which criminals return to criminal
activity is likely to increase if efforts to
rehabilitate them are ended.
(C)	 The rate of deliberate crimes is likely to
decrease if the expected utility of lawful
activities decreases.
(D)	 The rate of deliberate crimes is likely to
increase if the access of individuals to
economic institutions decreases.
(E)	 The rate of deliberate crimes will tend to vary
inversely with the level of law enforcement.
GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

Test 2

(A)	 In order to reduce his taxes, a waiter conceals a
large part of his tip income from the government
because he believes that it is very unlikely that
this will be detected and he will be penalized.
(B)	 A motorist avoids speeding on a certain stretch
of road because she knows that it is heavily
patrolled and that a speeding ticket will lead to
loss of her driver’s license.
(C)	 An industrialist continues to illegally discharge
an untreated pollutant into a river because
the cost of treatment far exceeds the fine for
illegally discharging the pollutant.
(D)	 A government official in an impoverished
country risks prosecution for soliciting bribes
because rampant inflation has rendered her
government salary inadequate to support her
and her family.
(E)	 A worker physically assaults his former
supervisor in a crowded workplace because
he has been dismissed from his job and he
believes that the dismissal was unwarranted
and unfair.

5

Test 2

5

5

		 Mexican Americans share with speakers of
	
Spanish throughout the world a rich and varied repertoire
	
of proverbs as well as a vital tradition of proverb use.
	
The term “proverb” refers to a self-contained saying
(5) 	 that can be understood independent of a specific verbal
	
context and that has as its main purpose the carrying of
	
a message or piece of wisdom. The great majority of
	
Spanish-language proverbs reached Mexico from
	
peninsular Spain, though they did not all originate
(10) 	 there. Many belong, in fact, to the common proverb
	
tradition of Europe and have exact equivalents in
	
English-language proverbial speech.
		 Each use of a proverb is an individual act whose
	
meaning varies depending on the individual speaker
(15) 	 and the particular social context in which the use
	
occurs. Nonetheless, it is important to recognize that
	
proverb use is also shaped by the larger community
	
with which the individual interacts. The fact that
	
proverbs often serve a didactic purpose points us to
(20) 	 one important function that proverbs serve in Mexican
	
American communities: the instruction of the young.
	
In fact, this function seems to be much more
	
prominent in Mexican tradition in general than in
	
English-speaking traditions. Adolescents of Mexican
(25) 	 descent in the United States consistently report the
	
frequent use of proverbs by their parents as a teaching
	
tool, in areas ranging from the inculcation of table
	
manners to the regulation of peer-group relationships.
	
The latter area is a particularly frequent focus of
(30) 	 proverb use within Mexican American communities:
	
one of the most frequently used proverbs, for example,
	
translates roughly as, “Tell me who you run with and
	
I’ll tell you who you are.” Perhaps this emphasis on
	
peer-group relations derives from a sense that
(35) 	 traditional, community-approved norms are threatened
	
by those prevalent in the surrounding society, or from
	
a sense that, in dealing with older children especially,
	
parents need to appeal to traditional wisdom to bolster
	
their authority.
(40) 		 Another dimension of proverb use within
	
Mexican American communities is that proverbs often
	
serve to foster a consciousness of ethnicity, that is, of
	
membership in a particular ethnic group possessing
	
features that distinguish it from other groups within a
(45) 	 multiethnic environment. Even those Mexican American
	
proverbs that do not have an explicitly didactic purpose
	
nevertheless serve as a vehicle for the transmission of
	
both the Spanish language and Mexican culture. It is in
	
these sayings that links to folklore and other aspects of
(50) 	 Mexican culture are established and maintained. Proverbs
	
thus provide a means of enhancing Mexican American
	
young people’s familiarity with their heritage, thereby
	
strengthening their ties to Mexican tradition.

5

5

5

7.	 Which one of the following most accurately expresses
the main point of the passage?
(A)	
(B)	

(C)	

(D)	
(E)	

The Mexican American tradition of Spanishlanguage proverb use differs in important ways
from the common proverb tradition of Europe.
Spanish-language proverbs figure prominently in
Mexican American communities, where they are
used both to instruct the young and to promote
the young’s familiarity with their heritage.
Most proverbs that are commonly used in
Mexican American communities have their
origins in either peninsular Spain or the
common proverb tradition of Europe.
Many people in Mexican American communities
use proverbs to teach young people about a
wide range of social behaviors and norms.
As is illustrated in the Spanish-language
tradition, the use of proverbs can serve a wide
range of purposes within a community.

8.	 The author provides a translation of a proverb in lines
32–33 primarily in order to
(A)	
(B)	
(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

illustrate the relation between proverb use and
education about peer-group relationships in
Mexican American communities
provide an example of the tone of a proverb
that is frequently used in Mexican American
communities
illustrate how a proverb can function as an
appeal to traditional wisdom
provide an example of how some Spanishlanguage proverbs can be clearly translated into
English
illustrate the effectiveness of proverbs as
educational tools in Mexican American
communities

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

5

5

9.	 The passage provides information that most helps to
answer which one of the following questions?
(A)	
(B)	
(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

In what other areas besides Europe did Spanishlanguage proverbs currently used in Mexican
American communities originate?
Are any proverbs that are used frequently in
the English-language tradition derived from
Mexican American proverbs?
What kinds of messages and pieces of wisdom
are most often communicated by proverbs in the
English-language tradition?
In what other ethnic groups besides Mexican
Americans do proverbs function to maintain ties
to the traditions of those groups?
Is the use of proverbs in teaching young
people more common in Mexican American
communities than in the English-language
tradition?

(A)	
(B)	
(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

Proverb use is seldom intended to reinforce
community-approved norms.
The way in which a proverb is used depends, at
least in part, on the community in which it is
used.
The most frequent use of proverbs in Mexican
American communities is for the purpose of
regulating peer-group relationships.
Proverbs are often used to help teach young
people languages.
When a proverb is used as an educational tool,
it is usually intended to serve more than one
purpose.

5

5

11.	 The author of the passage would be most likely to agree
with which one of the following statements?
(A)	
(B)	
(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

Most Mexican American proverbs have their
origin in the common proverb tradition of
Europe.
Mexican American parents are more likely to
emphasize the value of traditional wisdom than
are most other parents in the United States.
There are more Spanish-language proverbs
than there are proverbs in the common proverb
tradition of Europe.
Proverb use in some communities may reflect
parental concern that the young will not
embrace traditional norms.
Most proverbs cannot be accurately translated
from one language to another.

12.	 Which one of the following is most strongly implied by
the passage?
(A)	
(B)	

(C)	

(D)	

(E)	

If a proverb is used to inculcate table manners,
then its primary purpose is to maintain ties to an
ethnic tradition.
The frequent use of proverbs within any
community functions, at least in part, to convey
a sense of their ethnicity to children within that
community.
The ways in which Mexican Americans use
Spanish-language proverbs are typical of the
ways in which Spanish speakers throughout the
world use those proverbs.
There are some sayings that do not require a
verbal context to be understood but whose
meaning for each particular use depends on the
social context in which that use occurs.
The emphasis within Mexican American
communities on teaching children about
peer-group relationships distinguishes those
communities from other communities within the
United States.

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

Test 2

10.	 The passage most strongly suggests which one of the
following about the use of proverbs?

5

Test 2

5

5

	
Passage A
		 Evolutionary psychology has taught us to examine
	
human behavior from the standpoint of the theory of
	
evolution—to explain a given type of human behavior
	
by examining how it contributes to the reproductive
(5) 	 success of individuals exhibiting the behavior, and
	
thereby to the proliferation of the genetic material
	
responsible for causing that behavior. From an
	
evolutionary standpoint, the problem of altruism is a
	
thorny one: what accounts for the evolution of
(10) 	 behavior in which an individual expends energy or
	
other valuable resources promoting the welfare of
	
another individual?
		 The answer probably lies in the psychological
	
experiences of identification and empathy. Such
(15) 	 experiences could have initially arisen in response to
	
cues (like physical resemblance) that indicated the
	
presence of shared genetic material in human
	
ancestors. The psychological states provoked by
	
these cues could have increased the chances of related
(20) 	 individuals’ receiving assistance, thereby enhancing
	
the survival and replication of genes influencing the
	
capacity for identification and empathy. This would
	
account, for example, for a mother’s rushing to help
	
her injured child; genes promoting their own
(25) 	 self-propagation may thus operate through instinctive
	
actions that appear unselfish.
		 Since human ancestors lived in small, kin-based
	
groups, the application of altruistic mechanisms to the
	
entire group would have promoted the propagation of
(30) 	 the genes responsible for those mechanisms. Later,
	
these mechanisms may have come to apply to humans
	
who are not kin when communities grew larger. In this
	
way, apparently altruistic mechanisms may have arisen
	
within a genetically “selfish” system.
	
Passage B
(35) 		 Evolutionary psychology is a kind of conspiracy
	
theory; that is, it explains behavior by imputing an
	
interest (the proliferation of genes) that the agent of
	
the behavior does not openly acknowledge, or indeed,
	
is not even aware of. Thus, what seemed to be your
(40) 	 unsurprising interest in your child’s well-being turns
	
out to be your genes’ conspiracy to propagate
	themselves.
		 Such arguments can appear persuasive on the face
	
of it. According to some evolutionary psychologists,
(45) 	 an interest in the proliferation of genes explains
	
monogamous families in animals whose offspring
	
mature slowly. Human offspring mature slowly; and,
	
at least in numerical terms, our species favors
	
monogamous families. Evolutionary psychologists
(50) 	 take this as evidence that humans form monogamous
	
families because of our interest in propagating our
	
genes. Are they right?
		 Maybe yes, maybe no; this kind of inference
	
needs to be handled with great care. There are, most
(55) 	 often, all sorts of interests that would explain any
	
given behavior. What is needed to make it decisive
	
that a particular interest explains a particular behavior

5

5
	
	
(60) 	
	
	
	
	
(65) 	
	

5

is that the behavior would be reasonable only if one
had that interest. But such cases are vanishingly rare:
an interest in Y might explain doing X, but so too
would an interest in doing X. A concern to propagate
one’s genes would explain promoting the welfare of
one’s children; but so too would an interest in the
welfare of one’s children. Not all of one’s motives can
be instrumental, after all; there must be some things
that one cares for just for their own sakes.

13.	 Which one of the following most accurately states the
main point of passage A?
(A)	

(B)	
(C)	

(D)	

(E)	

Altruistic behavior is problematic for
evolutionary psychology because it tends to
diminish the reproductive success of individuals
that exhibit it.
New evidence may explain the evolution of
altruistic behavior in early humans by showing
that genes promote their own self-propagation.
Altruistic behavior originally served evolutionary
purposes that it does not serve today because
humans no longer live in small, kin-based
groups.
Contrary to what critics of evolutionary
psychology say, most significant types of
human behavior are prompted by genetically
selfish motivations.
An evolutionary explanation of altruistic
behavior may lie in the psychological states
brought about in early humans by cues of
kinship or familiarity.

14.	 The approaches toward evolutionary psychology
exhibited by the two authors differ in which one of the
following ways?
(A)	

(B)	
(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

The author of passage A is more interested
in examining the logical implications of
evolutionary psychology than the author of
passage B is.
The author of passage A is more committed to
the principles of evolutionary psychology than
the author of passage B is.
The author of passage A is more willing to
consider nonevolutionary explanations for
human behavior than the author of passage B is.
The author of passage B is more skeptical of
evolutionary theory in general than the author of
passage A is.
The author of passage B is more critical of the
motives of evolutionary psychologists than the
author of passage A is.

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

5

5

15.	 According to passage B, which one of the following
is an example of a human characteristic for which
evolutionary psychologists propose a questionable
explanation?
(A)	
(B)	
(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

the early human tendency to live in small
communities
the slow maturation of human offspring
forming monogamous families
misinterpreting the interests that motivate human
actions
caring for some things for their own sakes

5

5

18.	 Which one of the following assertions from passage A
most clearly exemplifies what the author of passage B
means in calling evolutionary psychology a “conspiracy
theory” (lines 35–36)?
(A)	
(B)	
(C)	
(D)	

16.	 According to passage A, certain types of human
behavior developed through evolutionary processes
because they
(A)	

(D)	
(E)	

17.	 How does the purpose of passage B relate to the content
of passage A?
(A)	
(B)	

(C)	
(D)	

(E)	

The author of passage B seeks to support the
main claims made in passage A by presenting
additional arguments in support of those claims.
The author of passage B criticizes the type of
argument made in passage A by attempting to
create an analogous argument with a conclusion
that is clearly false.
The author of passage B argues that the type
of evidence used in passage A is often derived
from inaccurate observation.
The author of passage B maintains that the
claims made in passage A are vacuous
because no possible evidence could confirm or
disconfirm them.
The author of passage B seeks to undermine
the type of argument made in passage A
by suggesting that it relies on questionable
reasoning.

(E)	

Evolutionary psychologists seek to examine
human behavior from the point of view of the
theory of evolution.
Altruism presents a difficult problem for
evolutionary psychology.
An altruistic individual uses valuable resources
to promote the well-being of another individual.
Genes may promote their self-propagation
through actions that appear unselfish.
Early humans lived in small, kin-based groups.

19.	 It can be inferred that the author of passage B would
regard which one of the following as a mistaken
assumption underlying arguments like that made in
passage A?
(A)	
(B)	
(C)	

(D)	
(E)	

Most of the physical features characteristic of
modern humans developed as the result of
evolutionary pressures.
Any action performed by an early human was
necessarily orchestrated by that individual’s
genes to promote the genes’ self-propagation.
To explain a type of human behavior in
evolutionary terms, it is sufficient to show
that the behavior would have improved the
reproductive success of early humans.
Evolutionary psychology can be used to explain
human behavior but not animal behavior, since
animal behavior is driven largely by instinct.
Most early human behaviors that significantly
hindered reproductive success were eliminated
by evolutionary competition.

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

Test 2

(B)	
(C)	

helped spread the genes responsible for those
same behaviors
prompted individuals to behave unselfishly
improved the physical health of individuals who
exhibited the behaviors
made individuals who exhibited the behaviors
more adept at finding food
prompted early humans to live in mutually
dependent groups

5

Test 2

5

5

		 During Dostoyevsky’s time there were two
	
significant and opposing directions in Russian literary
	
criticism. One position maintained that art stood high
	
above the present and the everyday, while the radical
(5) 	 view maintained that art had a right to exist only if it
	
found its sources in concrete reality, and, through the
	
exposure of want and injustice, it contributed to the
	
creation of a new society; literature, in other words,
	
should be useful. Dostoyevsky took a third position.
(10) 	 As a realist, he never doubted that reality was
	
literature’s crucial source. But his understanding of
	
reality went deeper than the one prevailing among
	
radical critics, since for Dostoyevsky there was no
	
distinction in principle between fantasy and reality,
(15) 	 and reality was far more than the merely tangible.
		 The radical critics’ demand that reality be depicted
	
“as it is” was meaningless for Dostoyevsky; reality
	
was necessarily shaped by the person who experienced
	
it: what may not be reality for you may be reality for
(20) 	 me. The task of the writer was to explode the boundaries
	
of the so-called real world. Within perceptible “reality”
	
exists another sphere, the fantastic, which is not in any
	
way superfluous to a writer’s concerns: “The fantastic
	
must be so intimately bound up with the real that one
(25) 	 almost believes in it.”
		 The radical critics’ insistence that art must serve a
	
particular political view was for Dostoyevsky the
	
equivalent of assigning to art “a shameful destiny.”
	
A literary work must stand or fall on its “artistic
(30) 	 merit,” he explained. The utilitarian claim that the
	
formal aspects of a work were of secondary importance
	
so long as its goal was good and its purpose clear
	
struck Dostoyevsky as a contradiction in terms. Only
	
fully realized artistic works could fulfill their goals.
(35) 	 But what does it mean to say that a work is “artistic”?
	
Dostoyevsky defined it thus: “To say that a novelist is
	
‘artistic’means that he possesses a talent to express his
	
thoughts in characters and images so that when the
	
reader has finished the novel, he has fully understood
(40) 	 the author’s thoughts. Therefore, artistry is quite
	
simply the ability to write well.”
		 The radical critics’ requirement that art must at all
	
costs be “useful” to people and society seemed to
	
Dostoyevsky unsatisfactory. How can we know what
(45) 	 will show itself to be useful? Can we say with assurance
	
how useful the Iliad has been to humankind? No,
	
Dostoyevsky believed, when it comes to this we
	
encounter breadths that cannot be measured with any
	
precision; sometimes a work of art may appear to
(50) 	 deviate from reality and serve no useful purpose
	
because we cannot see clearly what paths it may take
	
to become useful.

5

5

5

20.	Which one of the following most accurately expresses
the main point of the passage?
(A)	

(B)	

(C)	

(D)	

(E)	

By drawing on elements from the two
opposing strains of Russian literary criticism,
Dostoyevsky developed the theoretical
apparatus for a new direction in Russian
literature.
In opposition to the views of the two most
prominent groups of Russian literary critics,
Dostoyevsky believed that literature should
keep itself removed from reality.
Dostoyevsky’s indictment of the radical Russian
critics rested solely on his objection to the
radical critics’ stipulation that literature be
useful to society.
In his critical writings, Dostoyevsky championed
the freedom of the artist against the narrow
constraints imposed by the radical Russian
critics’ concern with the depiction of reality.
Dostoyevsky’s position on literature differed
sharply from that of the radical Russian
critics with respect to the nature of reality, the
importance of formal aspects in a literary work,
and the utility of art.

21.	 Which one of the following works most clearly
exemplifies writing Dostoyevsky would have deemed
“artistic”?
(A)	
(B)	
(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

a fictionalized account based on interviews with
patients that illustrates the brutal facts of illness
a novel in which the author’s ideas are given
substance through suitable characters and events
a novel in which the author attempted to use
allegory to communicate a criticism of feudal
society
an autobiographical essay in which the author
chronicles the outstanding events in his life
a short story in which the characters debate how
to solve various social problems

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

5

5

5

22.	 According to the passage, Dostoyevsky disagreed with
the radical critics’ view of realism in literature because
he believed
(A)	
(B)	
(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

reality is not independent of the experiences of
individuals
realism is unequal to the task of representing
political views
art should be elevated above the portrayal of
reality
realism does not in fact facilitate the exposure of
social inequities or contribute to the creation of
a new society
reality is not the crucial source of successful
literature

5

25.	 It can be inferred from the passage that Dostoyevsky
would most likely have agreed with which one of the
following statements about the view held by some
Russian critics that art should stand high above the
present and everyday?
(A)	
(B)	
(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

23.	 In the context of the passage, the description of a work
of literature as “useful” mainly refers to its

(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

proficiency at depicting the realm of the fantastic
effectiveness at communicating the author’s
ideas
ability to help bring about social change
facility for exploding the boundaries of the
tangible world
capacity to advance a particular theory of
literature

24.	 Which one of the following most accurately describes
the organization of the material presented in the
passage?
(A)	
(B)	
(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

Three positions are presented and each is
elaborated in detail.
Three positions are presented and the third is
differentiated from the first two in detail.
Three positions are presented and the third is
differentiated from the second in detail.
Three positions are presented and the third is
shown to be superior to the first two.
Three positions are presented and the third is
shown to be inferior to the second.

It is correct because of its requirement that art
have a strong element of the fantastic.
It is correct because it recognizes that reality is
more than just an enumeration of the mundane
details of life.
It is incorrect because reality must be the
foundation of all literature.
It is incorrect because it makes no distinction
between reality and fantasy.
It is incorrect because of its insistence that art
further some societal end.

26.	 Given the information in the passage, Dostoyevsky
would have been most likely to agree with which one of
the following statements about works of literature?
(A)	
(B)	
(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

Only works of literature that are well written can
serve a particular political view.
Only works of literature that serve a particular
political view can be said to be well written.
Works of literature that are not well written
always attempt to serve a particular political
view.
A work of literature that is well written cannot
serve any particular political view.
A work of literature that serves a particular
political view cannot be well written.

27.	 The passage suggests that Dostoyevsky’s attitude
toward the radical critics’ view would be most softened
if the radical critics were to
(A)	
(B)	
(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

draw a sharper distinction between reality and
fantasy when evaluating the content of a literary
work
put clarity of purpose ahead of formal aspects
when evaluating a literary work
acknowledge the importance of eliminating
elements of concrete reality from literary works
recognize the full significance of artistic merit
when evaluating literary works
explain more fully their demand that reality be
depicted as it is

S T O P
IF YOU FINISH BEFORE TIME IS CALLED, YOU MAY CHECK YOUR WORK ON THIS SECTION ONLY.
DO NOT WORK ON ANY OTHER SECTION IN THE TEST.

Test 2

(A)	
(B)	

5

PowerScore Practice Test 2
Experimental Section Answer Key
(From the September 1998 LSAT)
Section III - Logical Reasoning

Test 2

	

Credited
Response
	
	
	
	
	

1. B
2. B
3. A
4. C
5. A

	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	

6. D
7. C
8. A
9. B
10. C

	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	

16. C
17. B
18. C
19. B
20. C

11. A
12. D
13. A
14. D
15. C

21. E
22. C
23. C
24. E
25. E

Note: Online scoring will provide a more complete picture of your performance.

COMPUTING YOUR SCORE
Directions:
1.	 Use the Answer Key on the next page to check your
answers.
2. 	 Use the Scoring Worksheet below to compute your
raw score.
3. 	 Use the Score Conversion Chart to convert your raw
score into the 120-180 scale.

Scoring Worksheet

		
		

Number
Correct

SECTION I..................
SECTION II.................
SECTION III................
SECTION IV...............
2. 	 Enter the sum here:	
		
This is your Raw Score.

	 Reported		
Raw Score
	 Score	
Lowest	
Highest
180
179
178
177
176
175
174
173
172
171
170
169
168
167
166
165
164
163
162
161
160
159
158
157
156
155
154
153
152
151
150
149
148
147
146
145
144
143
142
141
140
139
138
137
136
135
134
133
132
131
130
129
128
127
126
125
124
123
122
121
120

99
98
97
96
95
94
93
91
90
89
88
86
85
84
82
81
79
78
76
74
73
71
69
68
66
64
63
61
59
58
56
54
53
51
50
48
46
45
43
42
40
39
37
36
34
33
32
30
29
28
26
25
24
23
21
20
19
18
17
16
0

101
98
97
96
95
94
93
92
90
89
88
87
85
84
83
81
80
78
77
75
73
72
70
68
67
65
63
62
60
58
57
55
53
52
50
49
47
45
44
42
41
39
38
36
35
33
32
31
29
28
27
25
24
23
22
20
19
18
17
16
15

Test 2

1. 	 Enter the number of questions you answered
correctly in each section.

Conversion Chart:
For Converting Raw Score to the 120-180 LSAT
Scaled Score
LSAT Form 1LSN092

Test 2

S C A N T R O N

®

SIDE 1

EliteView™ EM-286024-1:654321

INSTRUCTIONS FOR COMPLETING THE BIOGRAPHICAL AREA ARE ON THE BACK COVER OF YOUR TEST BOOKLET.
USE ONLY A NO. 2 OR HB PENCIL TO COMPLETE THIS ANSWER SHEET. DO NOT USE INK.
Right Mark

LAST NAME

FIRST NAME

A
B

A
B

A
B

A
B

A
B

A
B

A
B

A
B

A
B

A
B

A
B

A
B

A
B

A
B

A
B

A
B

A
B

A
B

A
B

A
B

A
B

C
D
E
F
G
H

C
D
E
F
G
H

C
D
E
F
G
H

C
D
E
F
G
H

C
D
E
F
G
H

C
D
E
F
G
H

C
D
E
F
G
H

C
D
E
F
G
H

C
D
E
F
G
H

C
D
E
F
G
H

C
D
E
F
G
H

C
D
E
F
G
H

C
D
E
F
G
H

C
D
E
F
G
H

C
D
E
F
G
H

C
D
E
F
G
H

C
D
E
F
G
H

C
D
E
F
G
H

C
D
E
F
G
H

C
D
E
F
G
H

C
D
E
F
G
H

I
J
K
L
M
N

I
J
K
L
M
N

I
J
K
L
M
N

I
J
K
L
M
N

I
J
K
L
M
N

I
J
K
L
M
N

I
J
K
L
M
N

I
J
K
L
M
N

I
J
K
L
M
N

I
J
K
L
M
N

I
J
K
L
M
N

I
J
K
L
M
N

I
J
K
L
M
N

I
J
K
L
M
N

I
J
K
L
M
N

I
J
K
L
M
N

I
J
K
L
M
N

I
J
K
L
M
N

I
J
K
L
M
N

I
J
K
L
M
N

I
J
K
L
M
N

O

O

O

O

O

O

O

O

O

O

O

O

O

O

O

O

O

O

O

O

O

P

P

P

P

P

P

P

P

P

P

P

P

P

P

P

P

P

P

P

P

P

Q

Q

Q

Q

Q

Q

Q

Q

Q

Q

Q

Q

Q

Q

Q

Q

Q

Q

Q

Q

Q

R
S
T

R
S
T

R
S
T

R
S
T

R
S
T

R
S
T

R
S
T

R
S
T

R
S
T

R
S
T

R
S
T

R
S
T

R
S
T

R
S
T

R
S
T

R
S
T

R
S
T

R
S
T

R
S
T

R
S
T

R
S
T

U
V
W
X
Y
Z

U
V
W
X
Y
Z

U
V
W
X
Y
Z

U
V
W
X
Y
Z

U
V
W
X
Y
Z

U
V
W
X
Y
Z

U
V
W
X
Y
Z

U
V
W
X
Y
Z

U
V
W
X
Y
Z

U
V
W
X
Y
Z

U
V
W
X
Y
Z

U
V
W
X
Y
Z

U
V
W
X
Y
Z

U
V
W
X
Y
Z

U
V
W
X
Y
Z

U
V
W
X
Y
Z

U
V
W
X
Y
Z

U
V
W
X
Y
Z

U
V
W
X
Y
Z

U
V
W
X
Y
Z

U
V
W
X
Y
Z

8

9

GENDER

Male
Female

10

DOMINANT
LANGUAGE

English
Other

2

MI

Yes
No

0
1
2
3
4
5
6

0
1
2
3
4
5
6

0
1
2
3
4
5
6

0
1
2
3
4
5
6

0
1
2
3
4
5
6

0
1
2
3
4
5
6

0
1
2
3
4
5
6

0
1
2
3
4
5
6

0
1
2
3
4
5
6

0
1
2
3
4
5
6

0
1
2
3
4
5
6

0
1
2
3
4
5
6

0
1
2
3
4
5
6

0
1
2
3
4
5
6

0

2
3
4
5
6

0
1
2
3
4
5
6

1
2
3
4
5
6

0
1
2
3
4
5
6

0
1
2
3
4
5
6

0
1
2
3
4
5
6

7
8
9

7
8
9

7
8
9

7
8
9

7
8
9

7
8
9

7
8
9

7
8
9

7
8
9

7
8
9

7
8
9

7
8
9

7
8
9

7
8
9

7
8
9

7
8
9

7
8
9

7
8
9

7
8
9

7
8
9

7
8
9

5

6

DATE OF BIRTH
MONTH DAY YEAR

Jan
Feb
Mar
Apr
May
June
July
Aug
Sept
Oct
Nov
Dec

0
1
2
3

0
1
2
3

0
1
2
3

0
1
2
3

0
1
2
3

0
1
2
3

0
1
2
3

0
1
2
3

0
1
2
3

0
1
2
3

0
1
2
3

4
5
6
7
8

4
5
6
7
8

4
5
6
7
8

4
5
6
7
8

4
5
6
7
8

4
5
6
7
8

4
5
6
7
8

4
5
6
7
8

4
5
6
7
8

4
5
6
7
8

9

9

9

9

9

9

9

9

9

9

12

TEST DATE

MONTH

DAY

A
A
A

B
B
B

C
C
C

D
D
D

E
E
E

A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A

B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B

C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C

D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D

E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E

A
A

B
B

C
C

D
D

E
E

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30

SECTION 2
A
A
A

B
B
B

C
C
C

D
D
D

E
E
E

A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A

B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B

C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C

D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D

E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E

A
A

B
B

C
C

D
D

E
E

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30

SECTION 3
A
A
A

B
B
B

C
C
C

D
D
D

E
E
E

A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A

B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B

C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C

D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D

E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E

A
A

B
B

C
C

D
D

E
E

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30

7

TEST
FORM CODE

RACIAL/ETHNIC
DESCRIPTION
Mark one or more

1 Amer. Indian/Alaska Native
2 Asian
3 Black/African American
4 Canadian Aboriginal
5 Caucasian/White
6 Hispanic/Latino
7 Native Hawaiian/
Other Pacific Islander
8 Puerto Rican
9 TSI/Aboriginal Australian

TEST FORM

YEAR

13

Mark one and only one answer to each question. Be sure to fill in completely the space for your
intended answer choice. If you erase, do so completely. Make no stray marks.
SECTION 1

CENTER
NUMBER

0
1
2
3
4
5
6

Law School Admission Test

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30

4

LSAC
ACCOUNT NUMBER

L
0
1

11

ENGLISH
FLUENCY

3

SOCIAL SECURITY/
SOCIAL INSURANCE NO.

SECTION 4
A
A
A

B
B
B

C
C
C

D
D
D

E
E
E

A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A

B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B

C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C

D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D

E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E

A
A

B
B

C
C

D
D

E
E

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30

SECTION 5
A
A
A

B
B
B

C
C
C

D
D
D

E
E
E

A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A

B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B

C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C

D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D

E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E

A
A

B
B

C
C

D
D

E
E

14

TEST BOOK
SERIAL NO.

A
B
C
D
E
F

A
B
C
D
E
F

0
1
2
3
4
5

0
1
2
3
4
5

0
1
2
3
4
5

0
1
2
3
4
5

0
1
2
3
4
5

0
1
2
3
4
5

G
H
I
J
K
L
M
N

G
H
I
J
K
L
M
N

6
7
8
9

6
7
8
9

6
7
8
9

6
7
8
9

6
7
8
9

6
7
8
9

O

O

P

P

Q

Q

R
S
T

R
S
T

PLEASE PRINT INFORMATION

LAST NAME

FIRST

SSN/SIN

DATE OF BIRTH
© 2011 BY LAW SCHOOL ADMISSION COUNCIL.
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. PRINTED IN USA.
A

B
C

1

A

Wrong Marks

✓ ✗

C

USE A NO. 2 OR HB PENCIL ONLY

