The December 2008 LSAT
Section I....................................35 minutes
Section II...................................35 minutes
Section III..................................35 minutes
Section IV..................................35 minutes
Section V...................................35 minutes

Test 4

The test begins on the next page.

1	

			 1

1	
SECTION I
Time—35 minutes
26 Questions

Directions: The questions in this section are based on the reasoning contained in brief statements or passages. For some questions,
more than one of the choices could conceivably answer the question. However, you are to choose the best answer; that is, the response
that most accurately and completely answers the question. You should not make assumptions that are by commonsense standards
implausible, superfluous, or incompatible with the passage. After you have chosen the best answer, blacken the corresponding space
on your answer sheet.
1. 	 Francis: Failure to become properly registered to
vote prevents one-third of the voting-age citizens
of Lagonia from voting. If local election boards
made the excessively cumbersome registration
process easier, more people would register and
vote.
	

	

Sharon: The high number of citizens not registered
to vote has persisted despite many attempts to
make registering easier. Surveys show that most
of these citizens believe that their votes would not
make a difference. Until that belief is changed,
simplifying the registration process will not	
increase the percentage of citizens registering to
vote.
The main issue in dispute between Francis and Sharon
is
(A) 	 whether changing the voter registration process
would be cumbersome
(B) 	 why so many citizens do not register to vote
(C) 	 what percentage of those registered to vote
actually vote
(D) 	 whether local election boards have simplified the
registration process
(E) 	 why the public lacks confidence in the effects of
voting

2. 	 Advertisement: Anyone who thinks moisturizers are
not important for beautiful skin should consider
what happens to the earth, the skin of the world,
in times of drought. Without regular infusions of
moisture the ground becomes lined and cracked
and its lush loveliness fades away. Thus your
skin, too, should be protected from the ravages
caused by lack of moisture; give it the protection
provided by regular infusions of Dewyfresh, the
drought-defying moisturizer.
	

The Dewyfresh advertisement exhibits which one of the
following errors of reasoning?
(A) 	 It treats something that is necessary for bringing
about a state of affairs as something that is
sufficient to bring about that state of affairs.
(B)	 It treats the fact that two things regularly occur
together as proof that there is a single thing that
is the cause of them both.
(C) 	 It overlooks the fact that changing what people
think is the case does not necessarily change
what is the case.
(D) 	 It relies on the ambiguity of the term “infusion,”
which can designate either a process or the
product of that process.
(E) 	 It relies on an analogy between two things that
are insufficiently alike in the respects in which
they would have to be alike for the conclusion
to be supported.

t1

Test 4

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

1	

			 1

1	
Questions 3-4
M: The Greek alphabet must have been invented by some 	
individual who knew the Phoenician writing system
and who wanted to have some way of recording
Homeric epics and thereby preserving expressions of a
highly developed tradition of oral poetry.
P:

Your hypothesis is laughable! What would have been
the point of such a person’s writing Homeric epics
down? Surely a person who knew them well enough
to write them down would not need to read them;
and no one else could read them, according to your
hypothesis.

5. 	 Bacteria from food can survive for several days on
the surface of plastic cutting boards, but bacteria can
penetrate wooden cutting boards almost immediately,
leaving the surface free of contamination. Therefore,
wooden cutting boards, unlike plastic cutting boards,
	
need not be washed in order to prevent their
contaminating food that is cut on them; wiping them off
to remove food debris is sufficient.
	

(A) 	 Washing plastic cutting boards does not remove
all bacteria from the surface.
(B) 	 Prevention of bacterial contamination is the only
respect in which wooden cutting boards are
superior to plastic cutting boards.
(C) 	 Food that is not already contaminated with
bacteria can be contaminated only by being cut
on contaminated cutting boards.
(D)	 Bacteria that penetrate into wooden cutting
boards do not reemerge on the surface after the
cutting boards have been used.
(E) 	 Washing wooden cutting boards kills bacteria
below the surface of the cutting boards.

3. 	 Which one of the following is an argumentative strategy
that P uses in responding to M?
(A)	
(B) 	
(C) 	
(D) 	
(E) 	

attacking M’s understanding of the literary value
of oral poetry
disagreeing with M’s thesis without attempting
to refute it
challenging M’s knowledge of the Phoenician
writing system
attempting to undermine M’s hypothesis by
making it appear absurd
providing an alternative interpretation of
evidence put forward by M

4. 	 P’s argument is vulnerable to which one of the 		
following criticisms?
(A) 	 It fails to demonstrate that the Phoenician
alphabet alone could have provided the basis for
the Greek alphabet.
(B)	 It incorrectly assumes that the first text ever
written in Greek was a Homeric poem.
(C) 	 It confuses the requirements for a complex oral
tradition with the requirements of a written
language.
(D) 	 It attempts to demonstrate the truth of a
hypothesis merely by showing that it is possible.
(E) 	 It overlooks the possibility that the person who
invented the Greek alphabet did so with the
intention of teaching it to others.

Which one of the following is an assumption on which
the argument depends?

6. 	 Asthmagon was long considered the most effective
of the drugs known as beta-2 agonists, designed to
alleviate asthma attacks. However, studies conducted
in Rhiago between 1981 and 1987 revealed that nearly
one out of every five of the asthma patients under
observation who took asthmagon suffered serious side
effects after taking the drug. Citing this statistic, some
doctors argue that asthmagon should be banned as an
anti-asthma drug.
	

Which one of the following, if true, most weakens the
case for the proposed ban of asthmagon?

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

Test 4

(A) 	 In Rhiago, where asthmagon had been the most
widely prescribed of the beta-2 agonists, the
number of asthma deaths increased between
1981 and 1987.
(B) 	 Many of the patients under observation to whom
asthmagon was administered had not previously
taken a beta-2 agonist.
(C) 	 Despite the growing concern about the drug,
many physicians in Rhiago still prescribe
asthmagon to asthma sufferers.
(D) 	 Among the patients observed, only those who
had very high cholesterol counts suffered side
effects after taking asthmagon.
(E) 	 Asthmagon increases the severity of asthma
attacks in some people because the drug can
cause damage to heart tissues.

1	
7.	 In response to requests made by the dairy industry
the government is considering whether to approve the
synthetic hormone BST for use in dairy cows. BST
increases milk production but also leads to recurring
udder inflammation, decreased fertility, and symptoms
of stress in cows who receive the hormone. All of
these problems can be kept under control with constant
veterinary care, but such levels of veterinary help would
cost big farms far less per cow than they would small
farms.
	

8. 	 Jones is selling a house to Smith. The contract between
the two specifies that for up to a year after ownership is
transferred, Jones will be responsible for repairing any
“major structural defects,” deemed as defects in the roof
or roof-supporting components of the house, that might
be found. Jones is not responsible for any other repairs.
The house has a truss roof, which means that the only
walls that support the roof are the exterior walls.
	

Test 4

9. 	 The play Mankind must have been written between
1431 and 1471. It cannot have been written before
1431, for in that year the rose noble, a coin mentioned
in the play, was first circulated. The play cannot have
been written after 1471, since in that year King Henry
VI died, and he is mentioned as a living monarch in the
play’s dedication.
	

It can be properly concluded from the information
above that
(A) 	 Jones did not know of any defects in the roof or
roof-supporting components of the house at the,
time the contract was written
(B) 	 although other components of the house may
contain defects, the roof and roof-supporting
components of the house are currently free from
such defects
(C) 	 the contract does not oblige Jones to repair any
defects in the house’s nonexterior walls after
ownership of the house has been transferred
(D) 	 Smith will be obliged to repair all structural
defects in the house within a year after
ownership is transferred, except those for which
Jones is responsible
(E) 	 in the past Jones has had to make repairs to some
of the house’s exterior walls

The argument would be most seriously weakened if
which one of the following were discovered?
(A) 	 The Royal Theatre Company includes the play
on a list of those performed in 1480.
(B) 	 Another coin mentioned in the play was first
minted in 1422.
(C) 	 The rose noble was neither minted nor circulated
after 1468.
(D) 	 Although Henry VI was deposed in 1461, he was
briefly restored to the throne in 1470.
(E) 	 In a letter written in early 1428, a merchant told
of having seen the design for a much-discussed
new coin called the “rose noble.”

If the statements above are true, which one of the
following claims is most strongly supported by them?
(A) 	 The government is unlikely to approve the 	
synthetic hormone BST for use in cows.
(B) 	 The proportion of cows that suffer from udder
inflammation, decreased fertility, and symptoms
of stress is currently greater on big dairy farms
than on small ones.
(C) 	 At the present time milk from cows raised on
small farms is safer to drink than milk from
cows raised on big farms.
(D) 	 The milk from cows who receive BST will not be
safe for people to drink.
(E) 	 Owners of big farms stand to gain more from
government approval of BST than do owners of
small farms.

t1

			 1

1	

10. 	All material bodies are divisible into parts, and
everything divisible is imperfect. It follows that all
material bodies are imperfect. It likewise follows that
the spirit is not a material body.
	

The final conclusion above follows logically if which
one of the following is assumed?
(A) 	
(B) 	
(C) 	
(D) 	
(E) 	

Everything divisible is a material body.
Nothing imperfect is indivisible.
The spirit is divisible.
The spirit is perfect.
The spirit is either indivisible or imperfect.

11. 	Special kinds of cotton that grow fibers of green or
brown have been around since the 1930s but only
recently became commercially feasible when a longfibered variety that can be spun by machine was finally
bred. Since the cotton need not be dyed, processing
plants avoid the expense of dyeing and the ecological
hazards of getting rid of leftover dye and by-products.
	

Which one of the following can be properly inferred
from the passage?
(A) 	 It is ecologically safer to process long-fibered
cotton than short-fibered cotton.
(B) 	 Green and brown cottons that can be spun only
by hand are not commercially viable.
(C) 	 Hand-spun cotton is more ecologically safe than
machine-spun cotton.
(D) 	 Short-fibered regular cottons are economically
competitive with synthetic fabrics.
(E) 	 Garments made of green and brown cottons are
		 less expensive than garments made of regular
		 cotton.

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

1	

			 1

1	
12. 	People in the tourist industry know that excessive
development of seaside areas by the industry damages
the environment. Such development also hurts the
tourist industry by making these areas unattractive to
tourists, a fact of which people in the tourist industry
are well aware. People in the tourist industry would
never knowingly do anything to damage the industry.
Therefore, they would never knowingly damage the
seaside environment, and people who are concerned
about damage to the seaside environment thus have
nothing to fear from the tourist industry.
	

	

13. 	Health officials claim that because the foods and
beverages mentioned or consumed on many television
programs are extremely low in nutritional value,
watching television has a bad influence on the dietary
habits of television viewers.
The claim by health officials depends on the
presupposition that

15. 	Dr. Z: Many of the characterizations of my work
offered by Dr. Q are imprecise, and such
characterizations do not provide an adequate basis
for sound criticism of my work.
	

Which one of the following can be properly inferred
from Dr. Z’s statement?
(A) 	 Some of Dr. Q’s characterizations of Dr. Z’s
work provide an adequate basis for sound
criticism of Dr. Z’s work.
(B) 	 All of Dr. Q’s characterizations of Dr. Z’s work
that are not imprecise provide an adequate basis
for sound criticism of Dr. Z’s work.
(C) 	 All of the characterizations of Dr. Z’s work by
Dr. Q that do not provide an adequate basis for
sound criticism of Dr. Z’s work are imprecise.
(D) 	 If the characterization of someone’s work is
precise, then it provides a sound basis for
criticizing that work.
(E) 	 At least one of Dr. Q’s characterizations of Dr.
Z’s work fails to provide an adequate basis for
sound criticism of that work.

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

Test 4

(A) 	 the eating and drinking habits of people on
television programs are designed to mirror the
eating and drinking habits of television viewers
(B) 	 seeing some foods and beverages being
consumed on, or hearing them mentioned on,
television programs increases the likelihood that
viewers will consume similar kinds of foods and
beverages
(C) 	 the food and beverage industry finances
television programs so that the foods and
beverages that have recently appeared on the
market can be advertised on those programs
(D)	 television viewers are only interested in the
people on television programs who have the
same eating and drinking habits as they do
(E) 	 the eating and drinking habits of people on
television programs provide health officials
with accurate predictions about the foods and
beverages that will become popular among
television viewers

Each of the following, if true, contributes to reconciling
the apparent discrepancy indicated above EXCEPT:
(A) 	 The soft-drink industry as a whole experienced
depressed sales during the summer months.
(B) 	 Foamy Soda’s competitors lowered their prices
even more drastically during the ‘summer
months.
(C) 	 Because of an increase in the price of
sweeteners, the production costs of Foamy Soda
rose during the summer months.
(D) 	 A strike at Foamy Soda’s main plant forced
production cutbacks that resulted in many stores
not receiving their normal shipments during the
summer months.
(E) 	 The weather during the summer months was
unseasonably cool, decreasing the demand for
soft drinks.

The reasoning in the argument is most vulnerable to
criticism on which one of the following grounds?
(A) 	 No support is provided for the claim that
excessive development hurts the tourist industry.
(B) 	 That something is not the cause of a problem is
used as evidence that it never coexists with that
problem.
(C) 	 The argument shifts from applying a
characteristic to a few members of a group to
applying the characteristic to all members of
that group.
(D) 	 The possibility that the tourist industry would
unintentionally harm the environment is
ignored.
(E) 	 The argument establishes that a certain state of
affairs is likely and then treats that as evidence
that the state of affairs is inevitable.

	

14.	 In an effort to boost sales during the summer months,
which are typically the best for soft-drink sales, Foamy
Soda lowered its prices. In spite of this, however, the
sales of Foamy Soda dropped during the summer
months.

1	
16. 	K, a research scientist, was accused of having
falsified laboratory data. Although the original data in
question have disappeared, data from K’s more recent
experiments have been examined and clearly none of
them were falsified. Therefore, the accusation should be
dismissed.
	

Which one of the following contains questionable
reasoning that is most similar to that in the argument
above?
(A) 	 L, an accountant, was charged with having
embezzled funds from a client The charge
should be ignored, however, because although
the records that might reveal this embezzlement
have been destroyed, records of L’s current
clients show clearly that there has never been
any embezzlement from them.
(B) 	 M, a factory supervisor, was accused of failing to
enforce safety standards. This accusation should
be discussed, because although the identity of
the accuser was not revealed, a survey of factory
personnel revealed that some violations of the
standards have occurred.
(C) 	 N, a social scientist, was charged with
plagiarism. The charge is without foundation
because although strong similarities between
N’s book and the work of another scholar have
been discovered, the other scholar’s work was
written after N’s work was published.
(D) 	 O, an auto mechanic, has been accused of selling
stolen auto parts. The accusation seems to be
justified since although no evidence links O
directly to these sales, the pattern of distribution
of the auto parts points to O as the source.
(E) 	 P, a politician, has been accused of failing to
protect the public interest From at least some
points of view, however, the accusation will
undoubtedly be considered false, because there
is clearly disagreement about where the public
interest lies.

Test 4

t1

			 1

1	
Questions 17-18

	
The widespread staff reductions in a certain region’s
economy are said to be causing people who still have their
jobs to cut back on new purchases as though they, too, had
become economically distressed. Clearly, however, actual
spending by such people is undiminished, because there has
been no unusual increase in the amount of money held by
those people in savings accounts.
17. 	The argument in the passage proceeds by doing which 	
one of the following?
(A) 	 concluding that since an expected consequence
of a supposed development did not occur, that
development itself did not take place
(B) 	 concluding that since only one of the two
predictable consequences of a certain kind of
behavior is observed to occur, this observed
occurrence cannot, in the current situation, be a
consequence of such behavior
(C) 	 arguing that since people’s economic behavior
is guided by economic self-interest, only
misinformation or error will cause people to
engage in economic behavior that harms them
economically
(D) 	 arguing that since two alternative developments
exhaust all the plausible possibilities, one of
those developments occurred and the other did
not
(E) 	 concluding that since the evidence concerning a
supposed change is ambiguous, it is most likely
that no change is actually taking place
18. 	Which one of the following is an assumption on which 	
the argument relies?
(A) 	 If people in the region who continue to be
employed have debts, they are not now paying
them off at an accelerated rate.
(B) 	 People in the region who continue to be
employed and who have relatives who have
lost their jobs commonly assist those relatives
financially.
(C)	 If people in the region who have lost jobs get
new jobs, the new jobs generally pay less well
than the ones they lost
(D) 	 People in the region who continue to be
employed are pessimistic about their prospects
for increasing their incomes.
(E) 	 There exist no statistics about sales of goods in
the region as a whole.

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

1	

			 1

1	
19. 	Every student who walks to school goes home for
lunch. It follows that some students who have part-time
jobs do not walk to school.
	

The conclusion of the argument follows logically if
which one of the following is assumed?
(A) 	 Some students who do not have part-time jobs go
home for lunch.
(B) 	 Every student who goes home for lunch has a
part-time job.
(C) 	 Some students who do not have part-time jobs do
not go home for lunch.
(D) 	 Some students who do not go home for lunch
have part-time jobs.
(E) 	 Every student who goes home for lunch walks to
school.

20. 	When the Pinecrest Animal Shelter, a charitable
organization, was in danger of closing because it could
not pay for important repairs, its directors appealed
to the townspeople to donate money that would be
earmarked to pay for those repairs. Since more funds
were ultimately donated than were used for the repairs,
the directors plan to donate the surplus funds to other
animal shelters. But before doing so, the directors
should obtain permission from those who made the
donations.
	

Which one of the following principles, if valid, most
helps to justify the position advocated above and yet
places the least restriction on the allocation of funds by
directors of charitable organizations?

	

Which one of the following arguments has a pattern
of reasoning most similar to the one in the argument
above?
(A) 	 The amount of art supplies used in any of the
Aesthetic Institute’s 25 classes is directly
proportional to the number of students in
that class. Since in these classes the institute
enrolled 20 percent more students overall last
year than in the previous year, more art supplies
were used in the institute’s classes last year than
in the previous year,
(B) 	 The number of courses in painting offered by
the Aesthetic Institute in any term is directly
proportional to the number of students enrolled
in the institute in that term. But the institute
offers the same number of courses in sculpture
each term. Hence, the institute usually offers
more courses in painting than in sculpture.
(C) 	 The number of new students enrolled at the
Aesthetic Institute in any given year is directly
proportional to the amount of advertising the
institute has done in the previous year. Hence,
if the institute seeks to increase its student
body it must increase the amount it spends on
advertising.
(D) 	 The fees paid by a student at the Aesthetic
Institute are directly proportional to the number
of classes in which that student enrolls. Since
the number of students at the Aesthetic Institute
is increasing, it follows that the institute is
collecting a greater amount in fees paid by
students than it used to.
(E) 	 The number of instructors employed by the
Aesthetic Institute in any term is directly
proportional to the number of classes offered
in that term and also directly proportional to
the number of students enrolled at the institute.
Thus, the number of classes offered by the
institute in any term is directly proportional to
the number of students enrolled in that term.

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

Test 4

(A) 	 The directors of charitable organizations cannot
allocate publicly solicited funds to any purposes
for which the directors had not specifically
earmarked the funds in advance.
(B) 	 People who solicit charitable donations from
the public for a specific cause should spend the
funds only on that cause or, if that becomes
impossible, should dispose of the funds
according to the express wishes of the donors.
(C) 	 Directors of charitable organizations who solicit
money from the public must return all the
money received from an appeal if more money
is received than can practicably be used for the
purposes specified in the appeal.
(D) 	 Donors of money to charitable organizations
cannot delegate to the directors of those
organizations the responsibility of allocating the
funds received to various purposes consonant
with the purposes of the organization as the
directors of the organization see fit.
(E) 	 People who contribute money to charitable
organizations should be considered to be
placing their trust in the directors of those
organizations to use the money wisely
according to whatever circumstance might arise.

21. 	The amount of electricity consumed in Millville on any
day in August is directly proportional to peak humidity
on that day. Since the average peak humidity this
August was three points higher than the average peak
humidity last August, it follows that more energy was
consumed in Millville this August than last August.

1	
22.	 Letter to the editor: After Baerton’s factory closed,
there was a sharp increase in the number of 	
claims filed for job-related injury compensation
by the factory’s former employees. Hence there is
reason to believe that most of those who filed for
compensation after the factory closed were just
out to gain benefits they did not deserve, and filed
only to help them weather their job loss.
	

Each of the following, if true, weakens the argument
above EXCEPT:
(A) 	 Workers cannot file for compensation for many
job-related injuries, such as hearing loss from
factory noise, until they have left the job.
(B) 	 In the years before the factory closed, the
factory’s managers dismissed several employees
who had filed injury claims.
(C) 	 Most workers who receive an injury on the job
file for compensation on the day they suffer the
Injury.
(D) 	 Workers who incur partial disabilities due to
		 injuries on the job often do not file for
compensation because they would have to stop
working to receive compensation but cannot
afford to live on that compensation alone.
(E) 	 Workers who are aware that .they will soon be
laid off from a job often become depressed,
making them more prone to job-related injuries.

23.	 Historians of North American architecture who have
studied early nineteenth-century houses with wooden
floors have observed that the boards used on the floors
of bigger houses were generally much narrower than
those used on the floors of smaller houses. These
historians have argued that, since the people for whom
the bigger houses were built were generally richer than
the people for whom the smaller houses were built,
floors made out of narrow floorboards were probably
once a status symbol, designed to proclaim the owner’s
wealth.
	

Test 4

t1

			 1

1	

Which one of the following, if true, most helps to
strengthen the historians’ argument?
(A) 	 More original floorboards have survived from big
early nineteenth-century houses than from small
early nineteenth-century houses.
(B) 	 In the early nineteenth century, a piece of narrow
floorboard was not significantly less expensive
than a piece of wide floorboard of the same
length.
(C) 	 In the early nineteenth century, smaller houses
generally had fewer rooms than did bigger
houses.
(D) 	 Some early nineteenth-century houses had wide
floorboards near the walls of each room and
narrower floorboards in the center, where the
floors were usually carpeted.
(E) 	 Many of the biggest early nineteenth-century
houses but very few small houses from
that period had some floors that were made
of materials that were considerably more
expensive than wood, such as marble.

24.	 Ethicist: A society is just when, and only when, first,
each person has an equal right to basic liberties,
and second, inequalities in the distribution of
income and wealth are not tolerated unless these
inequalities are to everyone’s advantage and are
attached to jobs open to everyone.
	

Which one of the following judgments most closely
conforms to the principle described above?
(A) 	 Society S guarantees everyone an equal right to
basic liberties, while allowing inequalities in
the distribution of income and wealth that are to
the advantage of everyone. Further, the jobs to
which these inequalities are attached are open to
most people. Thus, society S is just.
(B) 	 Society S gives everyone an equal right to
basic liberties, but at the expense of creating
inequalities in the distribution of income and
wealth. Thus, society S is not just.
(C) 	 Society S allows inequalities in the distribution
of income and wealth, although everyone
benefits, and these inequalities are attached to
jobs that are open to everyone. Thus, society S
is just.
(D) 	 Society S distributes income and wealth to
everyone equally, but at the expense of creating
inequalities in the right to basic liberties. Thus,
society S is not just.
(E) 	 Society S gives everyone an equal right to basic
liberties, and although there is an inequality in
the distribution of income and wealth, the jobs
to which these inequalities are attached are open
to all. Thus, society S is just.

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

1	

			 1

1	
25. 	Economist: In order to decide what to do about
protecting the ozone layer, we must determine
the monetary amount of the economic resources
that we would willingly expend to protect it.
Such a determination amounts to a calculation
of the monetary value of the ozone layer.
Environmentalists argue that the ozone layer does
not have a calculable monetary value. However,
we would not willingly expend an amount
equal to all of the world’s economic resources
to protect the ozone layer, so the ozone layer is
demonstrably worth less than that amount. Thus,
the ozone layer has a calculable monetary value.
	

The reasoning in the economist’s argument is flawed in
that the argument
(A) 	 uses evidence that the monetary value of a
particular natural resource is less than a certain
amount in order to establish that the monetary
value of any natural resource is less than that
amount
(B) 	 presupposes that the ozone layer should not be
protected and then argues to that claim as a
conclusion
(C)	 takes advantage of ail ambiguity in the term
		 “value” to deflect the environmentalists’ charge
(D) 	 gives no reason for thinking that merely
		 establishing an upper limit on a certain
monetary value would allow the calculation of
that monetary value
(E) 	 does not directly address the argument of the
		 environmentalists

26.	 Columnist on the arts: My elected government
representatives were within their rights to
vote to support the arts with tax dollars. While
funded by the government, however, some artists
have produced works of art that are morally
or aesthetically offensive to many taxpayers.
Nonetheless, my conclusion is that no taxpayers
have been treated unjustly whose tax dollars are
used to fund some particular work of art that they
may find abominable.
	

Which one of the following principles, if valid, most
supports the columnist’s argument?
(A) 	 Taxpayers should be allowed to decide whether a
portion of their tax dollars is to be used to fund
the arts.
(B) 	 The funding of a particular activity is warranted
if it is funded by elected representatives who
legitimately fund that activity in general.
(C) 	 Elected representatives are within their rights to
fund any activity that is supported by a majority
of their constituents.
(D) 	 Those who resent taxation to subsidize offensive
art should vote against their incumbent
government representatives.
(E) 	 Since taxpayers are free to leave their country
if they disapprove of their representatives’
decisions, they have no right to complain about
arts funding.

S T O P
IF YOU FINISH BEFORE TIME IS CALLED, YOU MAY CHECK YOUR WORK ON THIS SECTION ONLY.
DO NOT WORK ON ANY OTHER SECTION IN THE TEST.

Test 4

2	

2 	

2	 2		
SECTION II
Time—35 minutes
23 Questions

Directions: Each group of questions in this section is based on a set of conditions. In answering some of the questions, it may be
useful to draw a rough diagram. Choose the response that most accurately and completely answers each question and blacken the
corresponding space on your answer sheet.
Questions 1-6
Individual hour-long auditions will be scheduled for each
of six saxophonists—Fujimura, Gabrieli, Herman, Jackson,
King, and Lauder. The auditions will all take place on the
same day. Each audition will begin on the hour, with the first
beginning at 1 P.M. and the last at 6 P.M. The schedule of
auditions must conform to the following conditions:
Jackson auditions earlier than Herman does.
Gabrieli auditions earlier than King does.
Gabrieli auditions either immediately before or
immediately after Lauder does.
Exactly one audition separates the auditions of Jackson
and Lauder.
1.	 Which one of the following is an acceptable schedule
for the auditions, listed in order from 1 P.M. through 6
P.M.?
(A)	
(B)	
(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

Fujimura, Gabrieli, King, Jackson, Herman,
Lauder
Fujimura, King, Lauder, Gabrieli, Jackson,
Herman
Fujimura, Lauder, Gabrieli, King, Jackson,
Herman
Herman, Jackson, Gabrieli, Lauder, King,
Fujimura
Jackson, Gabrieli, Lauder, Herman, King,
Fujimura

3.	 The earliest King’s audition could be scheduled to
begin is
	
(A) 	 5 P.M.
(B) 	 4 P.M.
(C) 	 3 P.M.
(D) 	 2 P.M.
(E) 	 1 P.M.
4.	 The order in which the saxophonists are scheduled to
audition is completely determined if which one of the
following is true?
	
(A) 	 Herman’s audition is scheduled to begin at 4 P.M.
(B) 	 Jackson’s audition is scheduled to begin at 1 P.M.
(C) 	 Jackson’s audition is scheduled to begin at 5 P.M.
(D) 	 Lauder’s audition is scheduled to begin at 1 P.M.
(E) 	 Lauder’s audition is scheduled to begin at 2 P.M.
5.	 If Fujimura’s audition is not scheduled to begin at 1
P.M., which one of the following could be true?
	
(A) 	 Herman’s audition is scheduled to begin at 6 P.M.
(B) 	 Gabrieli’s audition is scheduled to begin at 5 P.M.
(C) 	 Herman’s audition is scheduled to begin at 3 P.M.
(D) 	 Jackson’s audition is scheduled to begin at 2 P.M.
(E) 	 Jackson’s audition is scheduled to begin at 5 P.M.
6.	 Which one of the following must be true?
(A)	

2.	 Which one of the following must be true?
	
(A) 	 Lauder is scheduled to audition earlier than
Herman.
(B) 	 Lauder is scheduled to audition earlier than
King.
(C) 	 Jackson’s audition is scheduled to begin at either
1 P.M. or 5 P.M.
(D) 	 Fujimura and Jackson are not scheduled to
audition in consecutive hours.
(E) 	 Gabrieli and King are not scheduled to audition
in consecutive hours.

Test 4

t1

(B)	
(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

Gabrieli’s audition is scheduled to begin before 5
P.M.
Herman’s audition is scheduled to begin after 2
P.M.
Herman’s audition is scheduled to begin before 6
P.M.
King’s audition is scheduled to begin before 6
P.M.
Lauder’s audition is scheduled to begin before 5
P.M.

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

2

2	

2 	
Questions 7-11
Four people—Grace, Heather, Josh, and Maria—will
help each other move exactly three pieces of furniture—a
recliner, a sofa, and a table. Each piece of furniture will be
moved by exactly two of the people, and each person will
help move at least one of the pieces of furniture, subject to
the following constraints:
Grace helps move the sofa if, but only if, Heather helps
move the recliner.
If Josh helps move the table, then Maria helps move the
recliner.
No piece of furniture is moved by Grace and Josh
together.
7.	 Which one of the following could be an accurate
matching of each piece of furniture to the two people
who help each other move it?
(A)	
(B)	
(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

recliner: Grace and Maria; sofa: Heather and
Josh; table: Grace and Heather
recliner: Grace and Maria; sofa: Heather and
Maria; table: Grace and Josh
recliner: Heather and Josh; sofa: Grace and
Heather; table: Josh and Maria
recliner: Heather and Josh; sofa: Heather and
Maria; table: Grace and Maria
recliner: Josh and Maria; sofa: Grace and
Heather; table: Grace and Maria

2	 2		

2

9.	 If Heather helps move each of the pieces of furniture,
then which one of the following could be true?
	
(A) 	 Grace helps move the recliner.
(B) 	 Maria helps move the recliner.
(C) 	 Josh helps move the sofa.
(D) 	 Maria helps move the sofa.
(E) 	 Grace helps move the table.
10.	 Which one of the following could be a pair of people
who help each other move both the recliner and the
table?
	
(A) 	 Grace and Josh
(B) 	 Grace and Maria
(C) 	 Heather and Josh
(D) 	 Heather and Maria
(E) 	 Josh and Maria
11.	 If Josh and Maria help each other move the sofa, then
which one of the following could be true?
	
(A) 	 Heather and Josh help each other move the
recliner.
(B) 	 Heather and Maria help each other move the
recliner.
(C) 	 Grace and Josh help each other move the table.
(D) 	 Grace and Maria help each other move the table.
(E) 	 Heather and Maria help each other move the
table.

8.	 If Josh and Maria help each other move the recliner,
then which one of the following must be true?
(A)	
(B)	
(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

Heather helps move the sofa.
Josh helps move the sofa.
Maria helps move the sofa.
Grace helps move the table.
Heather helps move the table.

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

Test 4

2	

2 	
Questions 12-16
A town has exactly two public parks—Graystone Park
and Landing Park—which are to be planted with North
American trees. There are exactly four varieties of trees
available—­maples, oaks, sycamores, and tamaracks. The
planting of the trees must be in accord with the following:
Each of the parks is planted with exactly three of the
varieties.
At least one of the parks is planted with both maples
and sycamores.
Any park that is planted with oaks will also be planted
with tamaracks.
Graystone Park is planted with maples.
12.	 Which one of the following could be a complete and
accurate list of the varieties of trees planted in each of
the parks?
	
(A) 	 Graystone Park: maples, oaks, sycamores
Landing Park: maples, oaks, sycamores
(B) 	 Graystone Park: maples, oaks, tamaracks
Landing Park: maples, oaks, tamaracks
(C) 	 Graystone Park: maples, sycamores, tamaracks
Landing Park: maples, oaks, sycamores
(D) 	 Graystone Park: maples, sycamores, tamaracks
Landing Park: maples, oaks, tamaracks
(E) 	 Graystone Park: oaks, sycamores, tamaracks
Landing Park: maples, sycamores, tamaracks
13.	 Which one of the following must be true?
	
(A) 	 Graystone Park is planted with sycamores.
(B) 	 Landing Park is planted with maples.
(C) 	 Landing Park is planted with tamaracks.
(D) 	 The number of the parks planted with maples is
equal to the number of the parks planted with
sycamores.
(E) 	 The number of the parks planted with maples
is greater than the number of the parks planted
with sycamores.

t1

2	 2		
14.	 If both parks are planted with sycamores, which one of
the following could be true?
	
(A) 	 The number of the parks planted with maples is
equal to the number of the parks planted with
oaks.
(B) 	 The number of the parks planted with maples
is greater than the number of the parks planted
with sycamores.
(C) 	 The number of the parks planted with oaks is
equal to the number of the parks planted with
sycamores.
(D) 	 Graystone Park is planted with both maples and
oaks.
(E) 	 Landing Park is planted with both maples and
oaks.
15.	 Which one of the following must be false?
	
(A) 	 Both parks are planted with oaks.
(B) 	 Both parks are planted with sycamores.
(C) 	 Both parks are planted with tamaracks.
(D) 	 Exactly one of the parks is planted with maples.
(E) 	 Exactly one of the parks is planted with
sycamores.
16.	 Which one of the following could be true?
	
(A) 	 The number of the parks planted with oaks is
equal to the number of the parks planted with
tamaracks.
(B) 	 The number of the parks planted with oaks is
greater than the number of the parks planted
with sycamores.
(C) 	 Exactly one of the parks is planted with
tamaracks.
(D) 	 Neither park is planted with tamaracks.
(E) 	 Both parks contain exactly the same three
varieties of trees as each other.

Test 4

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

2

2	

2 	

2	 2		

Questions 17-23
Five executives—Quinn, Rodriguez, Sasada, Taylor, and
Vandercar—are being scheduled to make site visits to three
of their company’s manufacturing plants—Farmington,
Homestead, and Morningside. Each site will be visited by
at least one of the executives and each executive will visit
just one site. Each of the three site visits will take place on a
different day. The schedule of site visits must conform to the
following requirements:
The Farmington visit must take place before the
Homestead visit.
The Farmington visit will include only one of the
executives.
The site visit that includes Quinn must take place before
any site visit that includes either Rodriguez or Taylor.
The site visit that includes Sasada cannot take place
after any site visit that includes Vandercar.
17.	 Which one of the following could be the executives
included in each of the site visits, with the sites listed in
the order in which they are visited?
(A)	
	
	
(B)	
	
	
(C) 	
	
	
(D) 	
	
	
(E) 	
	
	

Farmington: Quinn
Homestead: Rodriguez, Sasada
Morningside: Taylor, Vandercar
Farmington: Quinn
Homestead: Rodriguez, Vandercar
Morningside: Sasada, Taylor
Farmington: Rodriguez
Morningside: Quinn, Taylor
Homestead: Sasada, Vandercar
Homestead: Sasada
Farmington: Quinn
Morningside: Rodriguez, Taylor, Vandercar
Morningside: Quinn
Farmington: Rodriguez, Sasada
Homestead: Taylor, Vandercar

18.	 If the second of the three site visits includes both
Rodriguez and Taylor, which one of the following must
be true?
(A) 	
(B) 	
(C) 	
(D) 	

The Farmington visit includes Quinn.
The Homestead visit includes Vandercar.
The Morningside visit includes Sasada.
The second of the three site visits includes
Sasada.
(E) 	 The second of the three site visits includes
exactly three of the executives.

2

19.	 If one of the site visits includes both Quinn and Sasada,
which one of the following could be true?
(A) 	 The Farmington visit is the first of the three site
visits.
(B) 	 The Homestead visit is the second of the three
site visits.
(C) 	 One of the site visits includes only Vandercar.
(D) 	 The second of the three site visits includes
Sasada.
(E) 	 The second of the three site visits includes
exactly two of the executives.
20.	 The executives who visit Homestead CANNOT be
(A) 	
(B) 	
(C) 	
(D) 	
(E) 	

Quinn and Vandercar only
Rodriguez and Taylor only
Sasada and Taylor only
Quinn, Sasada, and Vandercar
Rodriguez, Sasada, and Taylor

21.	 If the Morningside visit includes both Quinn and
Vandercar, which one of the following could be true?
(A) 	 One of the site visits includes both Rodriguez
and Sasada.
(B) 	 The second of the three site visits includes
exactly three of the executives.
(C) 	 The last of the three site visits includes exactly
three of the executives.
(D) 	 The Homestead visit takes place earlier than the
Morningside visit.
(E) 	 The Morningside visit takes place earlier than the
Farmington visit.
22.	 Which one of the following must be true?
(A) 	 The Farmington visit takes place earlier than the
Morningside visit.
(B) 	 The site visit that includes Vandercar takes
place earlier than the site visit that includes
Rodriguez.
(C) 	 One of the first two site visits includes Sasada.
(D) 	 The second of the three site visits includes at
least two of the executives.
(E) 	 At least one of the first two site visits includes
only one of the executives.
23.	 If the Farmington visit includes Sasada, which one of
the following must be true?

S T O P

IF YOU FINISH BEFORE TIME IS CALLED, YOU MAY CHECK YOUR WORK ON THIS SECTION ONLY.
DO NOT WORK ON ANY OTHER SECTION IN THE TEST.

Test 4

(A) 	 One of the site visits includes exactly three of the
executives.
(B) 	 The last of the three site visits includes
Rodriguez.
(C) 	 The Homestead visit includes Quinn.
(D) 	 The Morningside visit includes Taylor.
(E) 	 The site visit that includes Vandercar also
includes Quinn.

3	

3	

3		3	

3	
SECTION III
Time—35 minutes
25 Questions

Directions: The questions in this section are based on the reasoning contained in brief statements or passages. For some questions,
more than one of the choices could conceivably answer the question. However, you are to choose the best answer; that is, the response
that most accurately and completely answers the question. You should not make assumptions that are by commonsense standards
implausible, superfluous, or incompatible with the passage. After you have chosen the best answer, blacken the corresponding space
on your answer sheet.
1.	 This region’s swimmers generally swim during the
day because they are too afraid of sharks to swim after
dark but feel safe swimming during daylight hours. Yet
all recent shark attacks on swimmers in the area have
occurred during the day, indicating that, contrary to
popular opinion, it is not more dangerous to swim here
at night than during the day.
	

The reasoning in the argument is most vulnerable to
criticism on the grounds that it
(A) 	 overlooks the possibility that some sharks are
primarily nocturnal hunters
(B) 	 bases its conclusion on evidence from an
unreliable source
(C) 	 overlooks the possibility that swimmers might
feel anxiety caused by not being able to see
one’s surroundings in the dark
(D) 	 presumes, without providing justification, that
swimmers cannot be the most knowledgeable
about which times of day are safest for
swimming
(E) 	 fails to take into account the possibility that the
number of shark attacks at night would increase
dramatically if more people swam at night

3.	 Acme Corporation offers unskilled workers excellent
opportunities for advancement. As evidence, consider
the fact that the president of the company, Ms. Garon,
worked as an assembly line worker, an entry-level
position requiring no special skills, when she first
started at Acme.
	

Which one of the following statements, if true, most
weakens the reasoning above?
(A) 	 Acme’s vice president of operations also worked
as an assembly line worker when he first started
at Acme.
(B) 	 Acme regularly hires top graduates of business
schools and employs them briefly in each of
a succession of entry-level positions before
promoting them to management.
(C) 	 Acme promotes its own employees to senior
management positions much more frequently
than it hires senior managers from other
companies.
(D) 	 Ms. Garon worked at Acme for more than 20
years before she was promoted to president.
(E) 	 Acme pays entry-level employees slightly higher
wages than most other businesses in the same
industry.

2.	 Denise: Crime will be reduced only when punishment
is certain and is sufficiently severe to give anyone
considering committing a crime reason to decide
against doing so.
	

Reshmi: No, crime will be most effectively reduced
if educational opportunities are made readily
available to everyone, so that those who once
viewed criminal activity as the only means of
securing a comfortable lifestyle will choose a
different path.

	

Their dialogue provides the most support for the claim
that Denise and Reshmi agree that

Test 4

t1

(A) 	 people are capable of choosing whether or not to
commit crimes
(B) 	 crime is the most important issue facing modern
society
(C) 	 reducing crime requires fair and consistent
responses to criminal behavior
(D) 	 crimes are committed in response to economic
need
(E) 	 reducing crime requires focusing on assured
punishments

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

3	

3	
4.	 The song of the yellow warbler signals to other yellow
warblers that a particular area has been appropriated
by the singer as its own feeding territory. Although the
singing deters other yellow warblers from taking over
the feeding territory of the singer, other yellow warblers
may range for food within a portion of the singer’s
territory. However, a warbler sings a special song when
it molts (sheds its feathers). Other yellow warblers will
not enter the smaller core territory of a yellow warbler
singing its molting song. Therefore yellow warblers,
which can only fly short distances during molting, have
no competition for the food supply within the range of
their restricted flying.
	

5.	 Chinh: Television producers should not pay attention
to the preferences of the viewing public when
making creative decisions. Great painters do not
consider what the museum-going public wants to
see.

	

6.	 Dietitian: High consumption of sodium increases some
people’s chances of developing heart disease. To
maintain cardiac health without lowering sodium
consumption, therefore, these people should eat
fresh, rather than canned or frozen, fruit and
vegetables, since the potassium in plant foods
helps to prevent sodium’s malign effects.
	

Lana: But television is expressly for the viewing public.
So a producer is more like a CEO than like an
artist. Just as a company would be foolhardy not
to consider consumers’ tastes when developing
products, the TV producer must consider viewers’
preferences.
According to Lana, Chinh’s argument is flawed in that
it

7.	 Dana intentionally watered the plant every other day.
But since the plant was a succulent, and needed dry
soil, the frequent watering killed the plant. Therefore
Dana intentionally killed the plant.
	

Which one of the following arguments exhibits a flawed
pattern of reasoning most similar to the flawed pattern
of reasoning exhibited in the argument above?
(A)	
(B)	

(C)	

(D)	

(E)	

Jack stole $10 from Kelly and bet it on a race.
The bet returned $100 to Jack. Therefore Jack
really stole $100 from Kelly.
Celeste knows that coffee is grown in the
mountains in Peru and that Peru is in South
America. Therefore Celeste should know that
coffee is grown in South America.
The restaurant owner decided to take an item
off her restaurant’s menu. This decision
disappointed Jerry because that item was his
favorite dish. Therefore the restaurant owner
decided to disappoint Jerry.
The heavy rain caused the dam to break, and
the breaking of the dam caused the fields
downstream to be flooded. Therefore the heavy
rain caused the flooding of the fields.
The power plant raised the water temperature,
and whatever raised the water temperature is
responsible for the decrease in fish. Therefore
the power plant is responsible for the decrease
in fish.

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

Test 4

(A) 	 is circular
(B) 	 relies on a sample of consumers that is
unrepresentative of consumers in general
(C) 	 infers from the effect produced by an action that
the action is intended to produce that effect
(D) 	 fails to consider the possibility that painters may
in fact try to please the museum-going public
(E) 	 offers a faulty analogy

Which one of the following is an assumption required
by the dietitian’s argument?
(A) 	 Fresh fruits and vegetables contain more
potassium than sodium.
(B) 	 Food processing businesses often add sodium to
foods being canned or frozen.
(C) 	 Potassium is the only mineral that helps to
prevent sodium’s malign effects.
(D) 	 Potassium in fruits and vegetables has few
negative side effects.
(E) 	 Fresh fruits and vegetables contain more
potassium than do canned or frozen ones.

The argument makes which one of the following
assumptions?
(A) 	 The core areas contain just enough food to
sustain one yellow warbler while it molts.
(B) 	 Warblers are the only molting birds that lay
claim to core areas of feeding territories by
singing.
(C) 	 There are no birds other than yellow warblers
that compete with yellow warblers for food.
(D) 	 Warblers often share their feeding areas with
other kinds of birds, which often do not eat the
same insects or seeds as warblers do.
(E) 	 The core areas of each feeding territory are the
same size for each molting warbler.

	

3		3	

3	

3	

3	
8.	 This boulder is volcanic in origin and yet the rest of
the rock in this area is sedimentary. Since this area
was covered by southward-moving glaciers during the
last ice age, this boulder was probably deposited here,
hundreds of miles from its geological birthplace, by a
glacier.
	

Which one of the following, if true, most seriously
undermines the conclusion drawn in the argument
above?
(A) 	 Most boulders that have been moved by glaciers
have not been moved more than 100 miles.
(B) 	 The closest geological source of volcanic rock is
50 miles south of this boulder.
(C) 	 The closest geological source of volcanic rock is
50 miles north of this boulder.
(D) 	 There are no geological sources of volcanic rock
north of this boulder.
(E) 	 No other boulders of volcanic origin exist within
50 miles of this boulder.

3		3	

3	

10.	 Critic: The idealized world portrayed in romance
literature is diametrically opposed to the
debased world portrayed in satirical literature.
Nevertheless, the major characters in both types of
works have moral qualities that reflect the worlds
in which they are presented. Comedy and tragedy,
meanwhile, require that the moral qualities of
major characters change during the course of the
action. Therefore, neither tragedy nor comedy
can be classified as satirical literature or romance
literature.
	

(A) 	 Some characters in comedies and tragedies are
neither debased nor idealized.
(B) 	 The visions of the world portrayed in works of
tragedy and works of comedy change during the
course of the action.
(C) 	 If a character in a tragedy is idealized at the
beginning of the action depicted in the tragedy,
he or she must be debased at the end.
(D) 	 In romance literature and satirical literature,
characters’ moral qualities do not change during
the course of the action.
(E) 	 Both comedy and tragedy require that the moral
qualities of minor characters change during the
course of the action.

9.	 Rifka: We do not need to stop and ask for directions.
We would not need to do that unless, of course,
we were lost.
	

Craig: The fact that we are lost is precisely why we
need to stop.

	

In the exchange above, the function of Craig’s comment
is to
(A)	
(B)	
(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

Test 4

t1

contradict the conclusion of Rifka’s argument
without offering any reason to reject any of
Rifka’s implicit premises
deny one of Rifka’s implicit premises and
thereby arrive at a different conclusion
imply that Rifka’s argument is invalid by
accepting the truth of its premises while
rejecting its conclusion
provide a counterexample to Rifka’s
generalization
affirm the truth of the stated premise of Rifka’s
argument while remaining noncommittal about
its conclusion

The critic’s conclusion follows logically if which one of
the following is assumed?

11.	 Lance: If experience teaches us nothing else, it
teaches us that every general rule has at least one
exception.
	

Frank: What you conclude is itself a general rule. If
we assume that it is true, then there is at least one
general rule that has no exceptions. Therefore, you
must withdraw your conclusion.

	

Frank’s argument is an attempt to counter Lance’s
conclusion by
(A) 	 demonstrating that Lance assumes the very thing
he sets out to prove
(B) 	 showing that Lance’s conclusion involves him in
a contradiction
(C) 	 showing that no general rule can have exceptions
(D) 	 establishing that experience teaches us the
opposite of what Lance concludes
(E) 	 showing that it has no implications for any real
cases

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

3	

3	
12.	 Throughout a certain nation, electricity has actually
become increasingly available to people in urban
areas while energy production has been subsidized to
help residents of rural areas gain access to electricity.
However, even with the subsidy, many of the most
isolated rural populations still have no access to
electricity. Thus, the energy subsidy has failed to
achieve its intended purpose.
	

The reasoning in the argument is most vulnerable to
criticism on the grounds that the argument
(A)	
(B)	

(C)	

(D)	

(E)	

takes for granted that the subsidy’s intended
purpose could have been achieved if the subsidy
had not existed
takes for granted that if a subsidy has any benefit
for those whom it was not intended to benefit,
then that subsidy has failed to achieve its
intended purpose
presumes, without providing justification, that
the intended purpose of the subsidy was to
benefit not only rural populations in the nation
who have no electricity, but other people in the
nation as well
overlooks the possibility that even many of
the people in the nation who live in urban
areas would have difficulty gaining access to
electricity without the subsidy
fails to take into account that the subsidy could
have helped many of the rural residents in the
nation gain access to electricity even if many
other rural residents in the nation were not
helped in this way

13.	 Heart attacks are most likely to occur on Mondays. The
accepted explanation is that because Monday is the
first day of the workweek, people feel more stress on
Mondays than on other days. However, research shows
that even unemployed retired people are more likely to
have heart attacks on Mondays than on other days.
	

3		3	

3	

14.	 Psychologist: We asked 100 entrepreneurs and 100
business managers to answer various questions
and rate how confident they were that their
responses were correct. While members of
each group were overconfident, in general the
entrepreneurs were much more so than the
business managers. This indicates that people who
are especially overconfident are more likely to
attempt to start a business in spite of the enormous
odds against success than people who are less
confident.
	

Which one of the following, if true, lends the most
support to the psychologist’s conclusion?
(A) 	 The questions asked of the entrepreneurs and
business managers included personal, political,
and business questions.
(B) 	 At least some of the entrepreneurs surveyed had
accurately determined before attempting to start
their businesses what the odds were against
their attempts being successful.
(C) 	 Another survey showed that degree of confidence
was highly correlated with success in business.
(D) 	 The business managers who were most
overconfident were found to have attempted to
start businesses in the past.
(E) 	 How confident each person surveyed was that
his or her answers to the questions asked were
correct corresponded closely to that person’s
confidence in his or her business acumen.

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

Which one of the following, if true, most helps to
explain the increased likelihood that an unemployed
retiree will have a heart attack on a Monday?

Test 4

(A) 	 Because they associate Monday with work,
retired people are more likely to begin large
projects on Mondays.
(B) 	 Many retired people take up part-time jobs after
they retire from their careers.
(C) 	 People seldom change their dietary and other
health habits after retirement.
(D) 	 Stress is the major factor influencing the risk of
heart attack.
(E) 	 Unemployed retired people are even more likely
to have heart attacks than are people who have
jobs.

3	

3	

15.	 If Agnes’s research proposal is approved, the fourthfloor lab must be cleaned out for her use. Immanuel’s
proposal, on the other hand, requires less space. So if
his proposal is approved, he will continue to work in
the second-floor lab. Only those proposals the director
supports will be approved. So since the director will
support both proposals, the fourth-floor lab must be
cleaned out.
	

The argument’s reasoning is flawed because the
argument
(A) 	 presumes, without providing justification, that
the fourth-floor lab is bigger than the secondfloor lab
(B) 	 fails to consider the possibility that a proposal
will be rejected even with the director’s support
(C) 	 presumes, without providing justification, that
the director will support both proposals with
equal enthusiasm
(D) 	 fails to consider the possibility that Immanuel
will want to move to a bigger lab once his
proposal is approved
(E) 	 presumes, without providing justification, that
no lab other than the fourth-floor lab would be
adequate for Agnes’s research

16.	 In order to expand its mailing lists for e-mail
advertising, the Outdoor Sports Company has been
offering its customers financial incentives if they
provide the e-mail addresses of their friends. However,
offering such incentives is an unethical business
practice, because it encourages people to exploit their
personal relationships for profit, which risks damaging
the integrity of those relationships.
	

Test 4

t1

Which one of the following principles, if valid, most
helps to justify the reasoning in the argument?
(A) 	 It is unethical for people to exploit their personal
relationships for profit if in doing so they risk
damaging the integrity of those relationships.
(B) 	 If it would be unethical to use information that
was gathered in a particular way, then it is
unethical to gather that information in the first
place.
(C) 	 It is an unethical business practice for a company
to deliberately damage the integrity of its
customers’ personal relationships in any way.
(D) 	 It is unethical to encourage people to engage in
behavior that could damage the integrity of their
personal relationships.
(E) 	 Providing a friend’s personal information to a
company in exchange for a financial reward will
almost certainly damage the integrity of one’s
personal relationship with that friend.

3		3	

3	

17.	 Glen: An emphasis on law’s purely procedural side
produces a concern with personal rights that
leads to the individual’s indifference to society’s
welfare. Law’s primary role should be to create
virtuous citizens.
	

Sara: But such a role would encourage government to
decide which modes of life are truly virtuous;
that would be more dangerous than government’s
being overprotective of individuals’ rights.

	

The dialogue provides the most support for the claim
that Glen and Sara disagree about whether
(A) 	 citizens can be assumed to be capable of making
good choices without governmental interference
(B) 	 virtuousness on the part of citizens is more
important than the protection of citizens’ rights
(C) 	 there is an inherent danger in allowing
government to decide what constitutes virtuous
behavior among citizens
(D) 	 an emphasis on law’s purely procedural side
results in government’s being overprotective of
citizens’ rights
(E) 	 the cultivation of virtue among citizens should be
the primary role of law

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

3	

3	

18.	 Some credit card companies allow cardholders to
skip payments for up to six months under certain
circumstances, but it is almost never in a cardholder’s
interest to do so. Finance charges accumulate during the
skipped-payment period, and the cost to the cardholder
is much greater in the long run.
	

Which one of the following arguments illustrates a
principle most similar to the principle underlying the
argument above?
(A) 	 Although insecticides are effective in ridding
the environment of insect pests, they often kill
beneficial insects at the same time. Since these
beneficial insects are so important, we must find
other ways to combat insect pests.
(B) 	 Increasing the base salary of new employees is
good for a company. Although the company’s
payroll will increase, it will be easier for the
company to recruit new employees.
(C) 	 It is unwise to use highway maintenance funds
for construction of new roads. There is some
immediate benefit from new roads, but if these
funds are not used for maintenance, the total
maintenance cost will be greater in the long run.
(D) 	 It is better to invest in a used piece of equipment
than to purchase a new one. Although used
equipment requires more repairs and is
sometimes more costly in the long run, buying a
new machine requires a far greater initial outlay
of capital.
(E) 	 Sports cars are impractical for most drivers.
While there is undoubtedly a certain thrill
associated with driving these cars, their small
size makes them incapable of transporting any
but the smallest amounts of cargo.

3		3	

3	

20.	 Psychologist: Psychotherapists who attempt to
provide psychotherapy on radio or television
talk shows are expected to do so in ways that
entertain a broad audience. However, satisfying
this demand is nearly always incompatible with
providing high-quality psychological help. For
this reason, psychotherapists should never provide
psychotherapy on talk shows.
	

Which one of the following principles must be assumed
in order for the psychologist’s conclusion to be properly
drawn?
(A) 	 It is never appropriate for psychotherapists to
attempt to entertain a broad audience.
(B) 	 The context in which psychological help is
presented has a greater impact on its quality
than the nature of the advice that is given.
(C) 	 Psychotherapy should never be provided in a
context in which there is any chance that the
therapy might be of less than high quality.
(D) 	 Most members of radio and television talk show
audiences are seeking entertainment rather than
high-quality psychological help.
(E) 	 Psychotherapists should never attempt to provide
psychological help in a manner that makes it
unlikely to be of high quality.

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

19.	 None of the students taking literature are taking
physics, but several of the students taking physics are
taking art. In addition, none of the students taking
rhetoric are taking physics.
	

Which one of the following statements follows logically
from the statements above?

Test 4

(A) 	 There are students who are taking art but not
literature.
(B) 	 None of the students taking literature are taking
art.
(C) 	 There are students who are taking rhetoric but
not literature.
(D) 	 None of the students taking rhetoric are taking
literature.
(E) 	 There are students who are taking both art and
literature.

3	

3	
21.	 Tania: A good art critic is not fair in the ordinary sense;
it is only about things that do not interest one
that one can give a truly unbiased opinion. Since
art is a passion, good criticism of art cannot be
separated from emotion.
	

	

Monique: Art is not simply a passion. The best art
critics passionately engage with the artwork, but
render their criticism only after shedding all of
their biases and consulting general principles of
aesthetics.
The dialogue most strongly supports the claim that
Tania and Monique disagree about whether
(A) 	 art is not simply a passion
(B) 	 good art criticism is sometimes unbiased
(C) 	 art critics should not feel emotion toward
artworks
(D) 	 fairness generally requires minimizing the
influence of bias
(E) 	 the passionate engagement of the art critic with
the artwork is the most important aspect of art
criticism

22.	 The writing styles in works of high literary quality are
not well suited to the avoidance of misinterpretation.
For this reason, the writing in judicial decisions,
which are primarily intended as determinations of law,
is rarely of high literary quality. However, it is not
uncommon to find writing of high literary quality in
dissenting opinions, which are sometimes included in
written decisions in cases heard by a panel of judges.
	

Which one of the following, if true, most helps to
resolve the apparent discrepancy in the statements
above?
(A) 	 It is not uncommon for more than one judge
to have an influence on the way a dissenting
opinion is written.
(B) 	 Unlike literary works, legal opinions rely heavily
on the use of technical terminology.
(C) 	 The law is not to any great extent determined by
dissenting opinions.
(D) 	 Judges spend much more time reading judicial
decisions than reading works of high literary
quality.
(E) 	 Judicial decisions issued by panels of judges are
likely to be more widely read than are judicial
decisions issued by a single judge who hears a
case alone.

Test 4

t1

3		3	

3	

23.	 Ecologist: Without the intervention of conservationists,
squirrel monkeys will become extinct. But they
will survive if large tracts of second-growth forest
habitat are preserved for them. Squirrel monkeys
flourish in second-growth forest because of the
plentiful supply of their favorite insects and fruit.
	

Which one of the following can be properly inferred
from the ecologist’s statements?
(A) 	 No habitat other than second-growth forest
contains plentiful supplies of squirrel monkeys’
favorite insects and fruit.
(B) 	 At least some of the conservationists who
intervene to help the squirrel monkeys survive
will do so by preserving second-growth forest
habitat for the monkeys.
(C) 	 Without plentiful supplies of their favorite
insects and fruit, squirrel monkeys will become
extinct.
(D) 	 If conservationists intervene to help squirrel
monkeys survive, then the squirrel monkeys will
not become extinct.
(E) 	 Without the intervention of conservationists,
large tracts of second-growth forest habitat will
not be preserved for squirrel monkeys.

3	

3	
24.	 Over 40,000 lead seals from the early Byzantine Empire
remain today. Apart from the rare cases where the seal
authenticated a document of special importance, most
seals had served their purpose when the document
was opened. Lead was not expensive, but it was not
free: most lead seals would have been recast once they
had served their purpose. Thus the number of early
Byzantine documents sealed in such a fashion must
have been many times the number of remaining lead
seals.
	

3		3	

3	

Which one of the following statements, if true, most
strengthens the argument?
(A) 	 Most of the lead seals produced during the early
Byzantine Empire were affixed to documents
that were then opened during that period.
(B) 	 Most of the lead seals produced during the early
Byzantine Empire were affixed to documents
that have since been destroyed.
(C) 	 The amount of lead available for seals in the
early Byzantine Empire was much greater than
the amount of lead that remains in the seals
today.
(D) 	 During the time of the early Byzantine Empire
there were at most 40,000 documents of
enough importance to prevent the removing and
recycling of the seal.
(E) 	 During the time of the early Byzantine Empire
there were fewer than 40,000 seals affixed to
documents at any given time.

25.	 Farmer: In the long run, it is counterproductive for
farmers to use insecticides. Because insects’
resistance to insecticides increases with
insecticide use, farmers have to use greater and
greater amounts of costly insecticides to control
insect pests.
	

Which one of the following most accurately describes
the role played in the farmer’s argument by the
proposition that farmers have to use greater and greater
amounts of costly insecticides to control insect pests?
(A) 	 It is the argument’s main conclusion, but not its
only conclusion.
(B) 	 It is a claim for which a causal explanation is
provided and which itself is used as direct
support for the argument’s only conclusion.
(C) 	 It is the argument’s only conclusion.
(D) 	 It is a claim that is used as direct support for
an intermediary conclusion, which in turn is
used as direct support for the argument’s main
conclusion.
(E) 	 It identifies a phenomenon for which the
argument’s main conclusion offers a causal
explanation.

S T O P
IF YOU FINISH BEFORE TIME IS CALLED, YOU MAY CHECK YOUR WORK ON THIS SECTION ONLY.
DO NOT WORK ON ANY OTHER SECTION IN THE TEST.

Test 4

4	

4	

4	

4	

4	

SECTION IV
Time—35 minutes
25 Questions
Directions: The questions in this section are based on the reasoning contained in brief statements or passages. For some questions,
more than one of the choices could conceivably answer the question. However, you are to choose the best answer; that is, the response
that most accurately and completely answers the question. You should not make assumptions that are by commonsense standards
implausible, superfluous, or incompatible with the passage. After you have chosen the best answer, blacken the corresponding space
on your answer sheet.
1. 	 Anna: Did you know that rainbows always occur
opposite the sun, appearing high in the sky when
the sun is low, and low in the sky when the sun is
high? The Roman scholar Pliny the Elder claimed
that this was so, in the first century A.D.
	

	

William: His claim cannot be correct. After all, Pliny
the Elder wrote that there are tribes of dog-headed
people and beings with no heads or necks but with
eyes on their shoulders, and said that smearing
snails on your forehead cures headaches!
William’s argument against Anna’s claims about
rainbows is most vulnerable to criticism because it
(A) 	 inappropriately distorts Anna’s conclusion,
making it appear more extreme than it really is
(B) 	 takes for granted that Pliny the Elder was in
bad faith when he reported about unheard-of
creatures
(C) 	 illicitly infers that, because Pliny the Elder made
some incorrect assertions, Pliny the Elder’s
assertions about rainbows are also incorrect
(D) 	 accepts the assertions of an ancient scholar
without presenting contemporary verification of
that scholar’s views
(E) 	 implies that Pliny the Elder’s writings are too
outdated to be of any value

2. 	 Shareholder: The company’s current operations are
time-proven successes. The move into food
services may siphon off funds needed by these
other operations. Also, the food service industry is
volatile, with a higher inherent risk than with, for
instance, pharmaceuticals, another area into which
the company has considered expanding.

t1

Test 4

	

If the shareholder’s statements are true, which one of
the following is most strongly supported by them?
(A) 	 The company’s present operations require
increased funding.
(B) 	 Investment into pharmaceuticals would not
siphon off money from other operations.
(C) 	 The company will lose money as it expands into
the food service industry.
(D) 	 Only if the company expands its operations into
pharmaceuticals are increased profits possible.
(E) 	 The company has a greater chance of losing
money in food services than in pharmaceuticals.

3. 	 Mariah: Joanna has argued that Adam should not judge
the essay contest because several of his classmates
have entered the contest. However, the essays
are not identified by author to the judge and,
moreover, none of Adam’s friends are classmates
of his. Still, Adam has no experience in critiquing
essays. Therefore, I agree with Joanna that Adam
should not judge the contest.
	

Which one of the following principles, if valid, most
helps to justify Mariah’s argument?
(A)	
(B)	
(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

A suspicion of bias is insufficient grounds on
which to disqualify someone from judging a
contest.
Expertise should be the primary prerequisite for
serving as a contest judge.
The ability of a judge to make objective
decisions is more important than that judge’s
content expertise.
In selecting a contest judge, fairness concerns
should override concern for the appropriate
expertise.
A contest judge, no matter how well qualified,
cannot judge properly if the possibility of bias
exists.

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

4

4	

4	

4	

4.	 The manufacturers of NoSmoke claim that their
product reduces smokers’ cravings for cigarettes.
However, in a recent study, smokers given the main
ingredient in NoSmoke reported no decrease in cravings
for cigarettes. Thus, since NoSmoke has only two
ingredients, if similar results are found for the second
ingredient, we can conclude that NoSmoke does not
reduce smokers’ cravings.
	

The argument above is flawed in that it
(A) 	 illicitly presumes that a whole must lack a
certain quality if all of its parts lack that quality
(B) 	 confuses a mere correlation with a cause
(C) 	 relies on a sample that is likely to be
unrepresentative
(D) 	 overlooks the possibility that NoSmoke helps
people to quit smoking in ways other than by
reducing smokers’ cravings for cigarettes
(E) 	 illicitly presumes that a claim must be false
because the people making the claim are biased

5. 	 Gardener: Researchers encourage us to allow certain
kinds of weeds to grow among garden vegetables
because they can repel caterpillars from the
garden. While it is wise to avoid unnecessary
use of insecticides, the researchers’ advice is
premature. For all we know, those kinds of weeds
can deplete the soil of nutrients and moisture that
garden crops depend on, and might even attract
other kinds of damaging pests.
	
	

Which one of the following most accurately expresses
the main conclusion of the gardener’s argument?
(A) 	 To the extent that it is possible to do so, we
should eliminate the use of insecticides in
gardening.
(B) 	 Allowing certain kinds of weeds to grow in
vegetable gardens may contribute to a net
increase in unwanted garden pests.
(C) 	 Allowing the right kinds of weeds to grow in
vegetable gardens can help toward controlling
caterpillars without the use of insecticides.
(D) 	 We should be cautious about the practice of
allowing certain kinds of weeds to grow among
garden vegetables.
(E) 	 We should be skeptical about the extent to which
certain kinds of weeds can reduce the presence
of caterpillars in gardens.

4	

4	

4

6. 	 Executive: We recently ran a set of advertisements in
the print version of a travel magazine and on that
magazine’s website. We were unable to get any
direct information about consumer response to
the print ads. However, we found that consumer
response to the ads on the website was much
more limited than is typical for website ads. We
concluded that consumer response to the print ads
was probably below par as well.
	
	

The executive’s reasoning does which one of the
following?
(A) 	 bases a prediction of the intensity of a
phenomenon on information about the intensity
of that phenomenon’s cause
(B) 	 uses information about the typical frequency of
events of a general kind to draw a conclusion
about the probability of a particular event of that
kind
(C) 	 infers a statistical generalization from claims
about a large number of specific instances
(D) 	 uses a case in which direct evidence is available
to draw a conclusion about an analogous case in
which direct evidence is unavailable
(E) 	 bases a prediction about future events on facts
about recent comparable events

7.	 Conservation officers justified their decision to remove
a pack of ten coyotes from a small island by claiming
that the coyotes, which preyed on wild cats and plover,
were decimating the plover population and would soon
wipe it out. After the coyotes were removed, however,
the plover population plummeted dramatically, and
within two years plover could no longer be found on the
island.
	
	

Which one of the following would, if true, most help
explain the phenomenon described above?
(A) 	 Plover are ground-nesting birds, which makes
them easy prey for coyotes.
(B) 	 Wild cat and plover populations tend to fluctuate
together.
(C) 	 Coyotes are not susceptible to any of the diseases
that commonly infect plover or wild cats.
(D) 	 The wild cat population on the island was once
significantly larger than it is currently.
(E) 	 The coyotes preyed mainly on wild cats, and
wild cats prey on plover.

Test 4

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

4	

4	

4	

8.	 Economist: During a recession, a company can
cut personnel costs either by laying off some
employees without reducing the wages of
remaining employees or by reducing the wages
of all employees without laying off anyone. Both
damage morale, but layoffs damage it less, since
the aggrieved have, after all, left. Thus, when
companies must reduce personnel costs during
recessions, they are likely to layoff employees.
	
	

9.	 There are far fewer independent bookstores than there
were 20 years ago, largely because chain bookstores
prospered and multiplied during that time. Thus, chain
bookstores’ success has been to the detriment of book
consumers, for the shortage of independent bookstores
has prevented the variety of readily available books
from growing as much as it otherwise would have.

Test 4

t1

Which one of the following is an assumption on which
the argument relies?
(A) 	 Book consumers would be better off if there
were a greater variety of readily available books
than there currently is.
(B) 	 Independent bookstores typically do not sell
the kinds of books that are available in chain
bookstores.
(C) 	 The average bookstore today is larger than the
average bookstore of 20 years ago.
(D) 	 The average bookstore today is smaller than the
average bookstore of 20 years ago.
(E) 	 Some book consumers value low prices more
highly than wide selection.

4	

10. 	Concert promoter: Some critics claim that our concert
series lacks popular appeal. But our income from
the sales of t-shirts and other memorabilia at the
concerts is equal to or greater than that for similar
sales at comparable series. So those critics are
mistaken.
	

The concert promoter’s argument is flawed in that it
(A) 	 attacks the critics on the basis of emotional
considerations rather than factual ones
(B) 	 takes for granted that income from sales of
memorabilia is the sole indicator of popular
appeal
(C) 	 takes for granted that the comparable series
possess popular appeal
(D) 	 draws a conclusion about the popularity of
a series based on a comparison with other,
dissimilar events
(E) 	 fails to adequately distinguish the series as a
whole from individual concerts in it

Which one of the following, if true, most strengthens
the economist’s reasoning?
(A) 	 Employee morale is usually the primary concern
driving companies’ decisions about whether to
layoff employees or to reduce their wages.
(B) 	 In general, companies increase wages only
when they are unable to find enough qualified
employees.
(C) 	 Some companies will be unable to make a profit
during recessions no matter how much they
reduce personnel costs.
(D) 	 When companies cut personnel costs during
recessions by reducing wages, some employees
usually resign.
(E) 	 Some companies that have laid off employees
during recessions have had difficulty finding
enough qualified employees once economic
growth resumed.

	

4	

11.	 The sun emits two types of ultraviolet radiation that
damage skin: UV-A, which causes premature wrinkles,
and UV-B, which causes sunburn. Until about ten years
ago, sunscreens protected against UV-B radiation but
not against UV-A radiation.
	

Which one of the following is best supported by the
information above?
(A)	
(B)	
(C)	
(D)	

(E)	

Since about ten years ago, the percentage of
people who wear sunscreen every time they
spend time in the sun has increased.
Most people whose skin is prematurely wrinkled
have spent a large amount of time in the sun
without wearing sunscreen.
The specific cause of premature skin wrinkling
was not known until about ten years ago.
People who wear sunscreen now are less likely to
become sunburned than were people who spent
the same amount of time in the sun wearing
sunscreen ten years ago.
Until about ten years ago, people who wore
sunscreen were no less likely to have premature
wrinkles than were people who spent the same
amount of time in the sun without wearing
sunscreen.

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

4

4	

4	

4	

12. 	Advice columnist: Several scientific studies have shown
that, when participating in competitive sports,
those people who have recently been experiencing
major stress in their lives are several times more
likely to suffer serious injuries than are other
participants in competitive sports. Since risking
serious injury is unwise, no sports activity should
be used as a method for coping with stress.
	

Which one of the following principles, if valid, most
helps to justify the reasoning in the advice columnist’s
argument?
(A) 	 If people recently under stress should avoid a
subset of activities of a certain type, they should
avoid all activities of that type.
(B) 	 A method for coping with stress should be used
only if it has been subjected to scientific study.
(C) 	 People who have not been experiencing major
stress in their lives should participate in
competitive sports.
(D) 	 When people have been under considerable
stress, they should engage in competitive
activities in order to relieve the stress.
(E) 	 People with a history of sports injuries should
not engage in sports activities if they have
recently been under stress.

13.	 Tent caterpillars’ routes between their nests and
potential food sources are marked with chemical traces
called pheromones that the caterpillars leave behind.
Moreover, routes from food sources back to the nest
are marked more heavily than are merely exploratory
routes that have failed to turn up a food source. Thus,
tent caterpillars are apparently among the insect species
that engage in communal foraging, which consists in
the conveying of information concerning the location of
food to other members of the colony, nest, or hive.
	

4	

4	

4

14.	 Many movies starring top actors will do well at the box
office because the actors are already well known and
have a loyal following. Movies starring unknown actors
are therefore unlikely to do well.
	

The flawed reasoning in the argument above is most
similar to that in which one of the following?
(A) 	 Many animals must devote most of their energy
to locating food, or they will not get enough
food to maintain optimal energy levels. Thus, if
immediate survival requires such an animal to
devote most of its energy to some other purpose,
optimal energy levels generally will not be
maintained.
(B) 	 Often the presence of the flower bee balm in a
garden will attract bumblebees that pollinate
the plants and enable the garden to produce an
abundant crop. So, gardens that lack bee balm
usually do not produce abundant crops.
(C) 	 A person’s ability to keep confidences is a large
part of being a friend, since frequently such
an ability enables a high degree of openness
in communication. Thus, a high degree of
openness in communication is an essential
feature of friendship.
(D) 	 Visual aids can be very useful in effectively
teaching math skills, because they generally
allow vivid conceptualization of math
principles. If such visual aids were never
employed, therefore, teaching math skills might
sometimes be more difficult.
(E) 	 An understanding of the rules of perspective is
necessary for achieving success as a painter,
since it is the understanding of these most basic
rules that allows the painter to paint realistically.
Thus, painters with an understanding of the
rules of perspective will achieve success.

Which one of the following, if true, adds the most
support to the argument?
(A)	
(B)	
(C)	
(D)	

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

Test 4

(E)	

A hungry tent caterpillar is more likely to follow
heavily marked routes than lightly marked
routes.
Tent caterpillars can detect the presence but not
the concentration of pheromones.
Sometimes individual tent caterpillars will not
return to the nest until a food source is located.
The pheromones left by tent caterpillars are
different from the pheromones left by other
animals.
Pheromones that tent caterpillars leave behind
are detectable by certain other species of
caterpillars.

4	

4	

4	

15.	 As part of a new trend in the writing of history,
an emphasis on the details of historical events and
motivations has replaced the previous emphasis on
overarching historical trends and movements, with
the result that the latter are often overlooked. In
consequence, the ominous parallels that may exist
between historical trends and current trends are also
overlooked, which lessens our ability to learn from
history.
	

16.	 Therapist: The ability to trust other people is essential
to happiness, for without trust there can be no
meaningful emotional connection to another
human being, and without meaningful emotional
connections to others we feel isolated.

	

Which one of the following, if assumed, allows the
conclusion of the therapist’s argument to be properly
inferred?
(A) 	 No one who is feeling isolated can feel happy.
(B) 	 Anyone who has a meaningful emotional
connection to another human being can be
happy.
(C) 	 To avoid feeling isolated, it is essential to trust
other people.
(D) 	 At least some people who do not feel isolated are
happy.
(E) 	 Anyone who is able to trust other people has a
meaningful emotional connection to at least one
other human being.

Test 4

t1

4	

17.	 Of all the Arabic epic poems that have been popular
at various times, only Sirat Bani Hilal is still publicly
performed. Furthermore, while most other epics were
only recited, Sirat Bani Hilal has usually been sung.
The musical character of the performance, therefore, is
the main reason for its longevity.
	
	

The argument is most vulnerable to criticism on the
grounds that it
(A) 	 relies on evidence that is in principle impossible
to corroborate
(B) 	 relies on a source of evidence that may be biased
(C) 	 takes for granted that a particular correlation is
causal
(D) 	 takes what may be mere popular opinion to be an
established fact
(E) 	 takes a sufficient condition to be a necessary
condition

The statements above, if true, most strongly support
which one of the following?
(A) 	 Studying the details of historical events and
motivations lessens our ability to learn from
history.
(B) 	 Overarching historical trends and movements
can be discerned only when details of historical
events and motivations are not emphasized.
(C) 	 Those who attend to overall trends and
movements in history and not to details are the
best able to learn from history.
(D) 	 A change in emphasis in the interpretation of
history has lessened our ability to learn from
history.
(E) 	 History should be interpreted in a way that gives
equal emphasis to overarching historical trends
and movements and to the details of historical
events and motivations.

	

4	

18.	 Fund-raiser: A charitable organization rarely gives
its donors the right to vote on its policies. The
inability to directly influence how charities spend
contributions makes potential donors feel less
of an emotional connection to the charity. Thus,
most charities could probably increase the amount
of money they raise through donations by giving
donors the right to vote.
	

Which one of the following is an assumption that the
fund-raiser’s argument depends on?
(A) 	 The most effective way for a charity to give
potential donors the ability to directly influence
what that charity does is by giving donors the
right to vote on the charity’s policies.
(B) 	 Most charities that have increased the amount of
money they raise through donations have done
so by making potential donors feel a greater
emotional connection to the charity.
(C) 	 Every charity that has given donors the right to
vote on its policies has seen a marked increase
in the emotional connection donors have to that
charity.
(D) 	 Most potential donors to a charity are unwilling
to give that charity any money if there is no
possible way for them to have any influence on
that charity’s policies.
(E) 	 The emotional connection potential donors feel
to a charity can affect the amount of money that
charity raises through donations.

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

4

4	

4	

4	

19.	 Leslie: I’ll show you that your quest for the treasure is
irrational. Suppose you found a tablet inscribed,
“Whoever touches this tablet will lose a hand, yet
will possess the world.” Would you touch it?
	

Erich: Certainly not.

	

Leslie: Just as I expected! It is clear from your answer
that your hands are more important to you than
possessing the world. But your entire body is
necessarily more important to you than your
hands. Yet you are ruining your health and
harming your body in your quest for a treasure
that is much less valuable than the whole world. I
rest my case.

	

Which one of the following most accurately expresses
the main conclusion drawn in Leslie’s argument?
(A) 	 Erich would not sacrifice one of his hands in
order to possess the world.
(B) 	 Erich should not risk his physical well-being
regardless of the possible gains that such risks
might bring.
(C) 	 Erich is irrationally risking something that is
precious to him for something that is of no
value.
(D) 	 Erich can be convinced that his quest for the
treasure is irrational.
(E) 	 Erich is engaging in irrational behavior by
pursuing his quest for the treasure.

4	

4	

4

20.	 Newspaper article: People who take vitamin C
supplements tend to be healthier than average.
This was shown by a study investigating the
relationship between high doses of vitamin C
and heart disease, which showed that people
who regularly consume high doses of vitamin
C supplements have a significantly lower than
average risk of heart disease.
	

Which one of the following, if true, would most weaken
the argument in the newspaper article?
(A) 	 Vitamin C taken in the form of supplements has
a different effect on the body than does vitamin
C taken in food.
(B) 	 The reduction in risk of heart disease due to the
consumption of vitamin C is no greater than the
reduction due to certain other dietary changes.
(C) 	 Taking both vitamin C supplements and vitamin
E supplements lowers one’s risk of heart disease
far more than does taking either one alone.
(D) 	 High doses of vitamin C supplements tend
to reduce slightly one’s resistance to certain
common infectious diseases.
(E) 	 Taking vitamin C supplements has been found to
lower one’s risk of developing cancer.

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

Test 4

4	

4	

4	

21. 	George: Throughout the 1980s and early 1990s, hardly
anyone learned ballroom dancing. Why is it that
a large number of people now take ballroom
dancing lessons?
	

	

Boris: It’s because, beginning in 1995, many people
learned the merengue and several related ballroom
dances. Because these dances are so popular, other
ballroom dances are now catching on.

22.	 On the basis of relatively minor morphological
differences, some scientists suggest that Neanderthals
should be considered a species distinct from CroMagnons, the forerunners of modern humans. Yet the
fact that the tools used by these two groups of hominids
living in different environments were of exactly the
same type indicates uncanny behavioral similarities,
for only if they faced the same daily challenges and
met them in the same way would they have used such
similar tools. This suggests that they were members
of the same species, and that the morphological
differences are due merely to their having lived in
different environments.

Test 4

t1

If the statements above are true, then each of the
following could be true EXCEPT:
(A) 	 Morphological differences between the members
of two populations do not guarantee that the two
populations do not belong to the same species.
(B) 	 The daily challenges with which an environment
confronts its inhabitants are unique to that
environment.
(C) 	 There are greater morphological differences
between Cro-Magnons and modern humans
than there are between Cro-Magnons and
Neanderthals.
(D) 	 Use of similar tools is required if members of
two distinct groups of tool-making hominids are
to be considered members of the same species.
(E) 	 Through much of their coexistence, CroMagnons and Neanderthals were geographically
isolated from one another.

4	

23.	 A summer day is “pleasant” if there are intermittent
periods of wind and the temperature stays below 84°F
(29°C) all afternoon. A summer day with high humidity
levels is “oppressive” either if the temperature stays
above 84°F (29°C) all afternoon or if there is no wind.
	

Which one of the following summer weather reports
most closely conforms to the principles stated above?
(A)	

Boris’s response to George is most vulnerable to
criticism because it fails to
(A) 	 show that the people who learned the merengue
are the same people who are now interested in
other ballroom dances
(B) 	 explain why ballroom dancing was so unpopular
before 1995
(C) 	 relate the merengue to the forms of dancing that
were more prevalent before 1995
(D) 	 account for the beginning of the revival of
interest in ballroom dancing
(E) 	 demonstrate that all types of ballroom dancing
are currently popular

	

4	

(B)	

(C)	

(D)	

(E)	

The temperature on Friday stayed below 82°F
(28°C) all day, and there was no wind at all. It
was a day of low humidity, and it was a pleasant
day.
On Monday, the temperature ranged from 85°F
to 90°F (30°C to 32°C) from early morning
until night. It was an oppressive day even
though the humidity levels were low.
On Tuesday, the temperature neither rose above
nor fell below 84°F (29°C) throughout late
morning and all afternoon. It was a pleasant day
because there were occasional periods of wind.
On Wednesday, a refreshing breeze in the early
morning became intermittent by late morning,
and the day’s humidity levels were constantly
high. It was an oppressive day, even though the
temperature did not rise above 84°F (29°C) all
day.
On Thursday morning, the air was very still,
and it remained windless for the whole day.
Humidity levels for the day were high, and even
though the temperature fell below 84°F (29°C)
between early and late afternoon, it was an
oppressive day.

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

4

4	

4	

4	

24.	 The local radio station will not win the regional
ratings race this year. In the past ten years the station
has never finished better than fifth place in the
ratings. The station’s manager has not responded to
its dismal ratings by changing its musical format or
any key personnel, while the competition has often
sought to respond to changing tastes in music and
has aggressively recruited the region’s top radio
personalities.
	

The reasoning in which one of the following is most
similar to that in the argument above?
(A) 	 Every swan I have seen was white. Therefore all
swans are probably white.
(B) 	 A fair coin was fairly flipped six times and was
heads every time. The next flip will probably be
heads too.
(C) 	 All lions are mammals. Therefore Leo, the local
zoo’s oldest lion, is a mammal too.
(D) 	 Recently stock prices have always been lower
on Mondays. Therefore they will be lower this
coming Monday too.
(E) 	 Only trained swimmers are lifeguards, so it
follows that the next lifeguard at the local pool
will be a trained swimmer.

4	

4	

4

25.	 Chef: This mussel recipe’s first step is to sprinkle the
live mussels with cornmeal. The cornmeal is used
to clean them out: they take the cornmeal in and
eject the sand that they contain. But I can skip
this step, because the mussels available at seafood
markets are farm raised and therefore do not
contain sand.
	

Which one of the following is an assumption required
by the chef’s argument?
(A) 	 Cornmeal is not used to clean out farm-raised
mussels before they reach seafood markets.
(B) 	 Mussels contain no contaminants other than
sand.
(C) 	 Sprinkling the mussels with cornmeal does not
affect their taste.
(D) 	 The chef’s mussel recipe was written before
farm-raised mussels became available.
(E) 	 The mussels the chef is using for the mussel
recipe came from a seafood market.

S T O P
IF YOU FINISH BEFORE TIME IS CALLED, YOU MAY CHECK YOUR WORK ON THIS SECTION ONLY.
DO NOT WORK ON ANY OTHER SECTION IN THE TEST.

Test 4

5

5

5

5

5

SECTION V
Time—35 minutes
27 Questions

Test 4

t1

Directions: Each passage in this section is followed by a group of questions to be answered on the basis of what is stated or
implied in the passage. For some of the questions, more than one of the choices could conceivably answer the question. However,
you are to choose the best answer; that is, the response that most accurately and completely answers the question, and blacken the
corresponding space on your answer sheet.
		 With his first published works in the 1950s, Amos
	
most revealingly, in the majority of Tutuola’s works,
Tutuola became the first Nigerian writer to receive
the traditional accents and techniques of the teller of
wide international recognition. Written in a mix of
folktales are clearly discernible, for example in the
standard English, idiomatic Nigerian English, and
adoption of an omniscient, summarizing voice at the
(5) 	 literal translation of his native language, Yoruba,
(55) 	 end of his narratives, a device that is generally
Tutuola’s works were quick to be praised by many
recognized as being employed to conclude most
literary critics as fresh, inventive approaches to the
folktales.
form of the novel. Others, however, dismissed his
works as simple retellings of local tales, full of
1.	 Which one of the following most accurately expresses
(10) 	 unwelcome liberties taken with the details of the
the main point of the passage?
	
well-known story lines. However, to estimate properly
(A) 	 Amos Tutuola is an internationally acclaimed
	
Tutuola’s rightful position in world literature, it is
writer of folktales whose unique writing style
essential to be clear about the genre in which he
blends together aspects of Yoruba, Nigerian
wrote; literary critics have assumed too facilely that
English, and standard English.
(15) 	 he wrote novels.
(B) 	 Amos Tutuola’s literary works should be
		 No matter how flexible a definition of the novel
evaluated not as novels but as unique and
one uses, establishing a set of criteria that enable
inventively crafted retellings of folktales.
Tutuola’s works to be described as such applies to his
(C) 	 Amos Tutuola is an important author because he
works a body of assumptions the works are not
is able to incorporate the traditions of an oral art
(20) 	 designed to satisfy. Tutuola is not a novelist but a
form into his novels.
teller of folktales. Many of his critics are right to
(D) 	 Critics are divided as to whether Amos Tutuola’s
suggest that Tutuola’s subjects are not strikingly
literary works should be regarded as novels or
original, but it is important to bear in mind that
folktales.
whereas realism and originality are expected of the
(E) 	 The folktale is a valuable African literary genre
(25) 	 novel, the teller of folktales is expected to derive
that finds singular expression in the works of
subjects and frameworks from the corpus of
Amos Tutuola.
traditional lore. The most useful approach to
Tutuola’s works, then, is one that regards him as
2.	 Tutuola’s approach to writing folktales would be most
working within the African oral tradition.
clearly exemplified by a modern-day Irish author who
(30) 		 Within this tradition, a folktale is common
	
	
property, an expression of a people’s culture and
(A) 	 applied conventions of the modern novel to the
social circumstances. The teller of folktales knows
retelling of Irish folktales
that the basic story is already known to most listeners
(B) 	 re-created important elements of the Irish literary
and, equally, that the teller’s reputation depends on
style within a purely oral art form
(35) 	 the inventiveness with which the tale is modified and
(C) 	 combined characters from English and Irish
	
embellished, for what the audience anticipates is not
folktales to tell a story of modern life
	
an accurate retelling of the story but effective
(D) 	 transplanted traditional Irish folktales from their
improvisation and delivery. Thus, within the
original setting to contemporary Irish life
framework of the basic story, the teller is allowed
(E) 	 utilized an omniscient narrator in telling original
(40) 	 considerable room to maneuver—in fact, the most
stories about contemporary Irish life
brilliant tellers of folktales transform them into
unique works.
		 Tutuola’s adherence to this tradition is clear:
specific episodes, for example, are often repeated for
(45) 	 emphasis, and he embellishes familiar tales with
GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.
personal interpretations or by transferring them to
modern settings. The blend of English with local
idiom and Yoruba grammatical constructs, in which
adjectives and verbs are often interchangeable,
(50) 	 re-creates the folktales in singular ways. And, perhaps

5

5

3.	 Which one of the following most accurately
characterizes the author’s attitude toward Tutuola’s
position in world literature?
	
(A) 	 convinced that Tutuola’s works should be viewed
within the context of the African oral tradition
(B) 	 certain that Tutuola’s works will generate a
renewed interest in the study of oral traditions
(C) 	 pleased at the reception that Tutuola’s works
have received from literary critics
(D) 	 confident that the original integrity of Tutuola’s
works will be preserved despite numerous
translations
(E) 	 optimistic that Tutuola’s works reflect what will
become a growing new trend in literature
4.	 According to the passage, some critics have criticized
Tutuola’s work on the ground that
(A) 	 his literary works do not exhibit enough
similarities to the African oral tradition from
which they are drawn
(B) 	 his mixture of languages is not entirely effective
as a vehicle for either traditional folktales or
contemporary novels
(C) 	 his attempt to fuse elements of traditional
storytelling style with the format of the novel is
detrimental to his artistic purposes
(D) 	 his writing borrows substantially from wellknown story lines and at the same time alters
their details
(E) 	 his unique works are not actually novels, even
though he characterizes them as such

5

5

5

5.	 The author attributes each of the following to Tutuola
EXCEPT:
	
(A) 	 repetition of elements in his stories for emphasis
(B) 	 relocation of traditional stories to modern
settings
(C) 	 attainment of international recognition
(D) 	 use of an omniscient narrator in his works
(E) 	 transformation of Yoruba folktales into modern
novels
6.	 The author refers to the “corpus of traditional lore”
(lines 26-27) as part of an attempt to
	
(A) 	 distinguish expectations that apply to one literary
genre from those that apply to another literary
genre
(B) 	 argue that two sharply differing literary genres
are both equally valuable
(C) 	 challenge critics who ascribe little merit to
innovative ways of blending two distinct literary
genres
(D) 	 elucidate those characteristics of one literary
genre that have direct counterparts in another,
largely dissimilar genre
(E) 	 argue for a new, more precise analysis of
two literary genres whose distinguishing
characteristics are poorly understood
7.	 The primary purpose of the passage is to
	
(A) 	 illustrate the wide range of Tutuola’s body of
work
(B) 	 explain the significance of the literary genre of
the folktale and to defend it as a valid art form
(C) 	 provide an account of Tutuola’s body of work in
order to help establish appropriate criteria for its
evaluation
(D) 	 distinguish accurately between the genre of the
novel and that of the folktale
(E) 	 summarize the disagreement among critics
regarding Tutuola’s place in world literature

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

Test 4

5

Test 4

t1

5

		 Mechanisms for recognizing kin are found
	
throughout the plant and animal kingdoms, regardless
of an organism’s social or mental complexity.
Improvements in the general understanding of these
(5) 	 mechanisms have turned some biologists’ attention to 	
the question of why kin recognition occurs at all. One
response to this question is offered by the inclusive
fitness theory, which was developed in the 1960s. The
theory is based on the realization that an organism
(10) 	 transmits its genetic attributes to succeeding
generations not solely through its offspring, but more
generally through all of its close relatives. Whereas
the traditional view of evolution held that natural 	
selection favors the continued genetic representation
(15) 	 of individuals within a species that produce the 	
greatest number of offspring, the inclusive fitness 	
theory posits that natural selection similarly favors 	
organisms that help their relatives, because doing so
also increases their own total genetic representation.
(20) 	 The theory has helped to explain previously 		
mysterious phenomena, including the evolution of 	
social insect species like the honeybee, most of 	
whose members do not produce offspring and exist 	
only to nurture relatives. 			
(25) 		 Inclusive fitness theory has also been applied 	
usefully to new findings concerning cannibalism 	
within animal species. Based on the theory, cannibals 	
should have evolved to avoid eating their own kin 	
because of the obvious genetic costs of such a 	
(30) 	 practice. Spadefoot toad tadpoles provide an 		
illustration. Biologists have found that all tadpoles of 	
that species begin life as omnivores, feeding mainly 	
on organic debris in their soon-to-be-dry pool in the 	
desert, but that occasionally one tadpole eats another
(35) 	 or eats a freshwater shrimp. This event can trigger 	
changes in the tadpole’s physiology and dietary 	
preference, causing the tadpole to become larger and
exclusively carnivorous, feasting on other animals
including members of its own species. Yet the
(40) 	 cannibals have a procedure of discrimination whereby
they nip at other tadpoles, eating non siblings but 	
releasing siblings unharmed. This suggests that the 	
inclusive fitness theory offers at least a partial answer 	
to why kin recognition develops. Interestingly, a
(45) 	 cannibal tadpole is less likely to avoid eating kin 	
when it becomes very hungry, apparently putting its 	
own unique genetic makeup ahead of its siblings’. 	
	 But there may be other reasons why organisms 	
recognize kin. For example, it has recently been
(50) 	 found that tiger salamander larvae, also either 		
omnivorous or cannibalistic, are plagued in nature by 	
a deadly bacterium. Furthermore, it was determined 	
that cannibal larvae are especially likely to be 		
infected by eating diseased species members. The fact
(55) 	 that this bacterium is more deadly when it comes 	
from a close relative with a similar immune system 	
suggests that natural selection may favor cannibals 	
that avoid such pathogens by not eating kin. For tiger 	
salamanders then, kin recognition can be explained
(60) 	 simply as a means by which an organism preserves its
own life, not as a means to aid in relatives’ survival.

5

5

5

8. 	 Which one of the following most accurately expresses
the main point of the passage? 	
(A)	

Some findings support the hypothesis that kin
recognition emerged through natural selection
because it increased organisms’ total genetic
representation, but this hypothesis may not
explain all instances of kin recognition.
(B)	 Current research supports the view that the
mechanisms enabling the members of a species
to recognize close relatives are as various as the
purposes served by that ability.
(C)	 Recent research involving tiger salamanders
undermines the hypothesis concerning the
purpose of kin recognition that is espoused by
traditional evolutionary theorists.
(D)	 New research involving tiger salamanders
indicates that the traditional theory of natural
selection is more strongly supported by the
evidence than is thought by those who consider
only the case of the spadefoot toad tadpole.
(E)	 While traditional evolutionary theory was
unable to account for the phenomenon of kin
recognition, this phenomenon is fully explained
by the inclusive fitness theory. 			
					
9. 	 The passage states which one of the following about
some spade foot toad tadpoles?
	
(A) 	 They develop the ability to recognize fellow
carnivores.
(B) 	 They feed only upon omnivorous tadpoles.
(C) 	 They change in body size when they become
carnivores.
(D) 	 Their carnivorousness constitutes an important
piece of evidence that calls into question the
inclusive fitness theory.
(E) 	 Their carnivorousness would not occur unless
it contributed in some way to the evolutionary
success of the spade foot toad species.
10. 	Based on the passage, the author would be most likely
to agree with which one of the following statements
about evolutionary explanations of kin recognition?
						
(A) 	 It is impossible to understand the mechanisms
underlying kin recognition until an evolutionary
explanation of such recognition has been
attained.
(B) 	 Such explanations require no modifications to
traditional evolutionary theory.
(C) 	 For any such explanation to be fully adequate it
should ignore the differences of social or mental
complexity of the organisms whose abilities it is
intended to explain.
(D) 	 Kin recognition may have different evolutionary
explanations in different species.
(E) 	 No other evolutionary explanation can account
for the wide diversity of unusual phenomena
with the same success as the ,inclusive fitness
theory.
GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

5

5

11. 	Which one of the following most accurately describes
the function of the last sentence of the second
paragraph?
(A)	

(B)	
(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

to draw attention to behavior that further
complicates the set of facts to be explained by
any theory of natural selection that accounts for
kin recognition
to explain why cannibals in most species eat their
kin less often than do cannibal spadefoot toad
tadpoles
to describe behavior that lends support to the
account of kin recognition presented in the
second paragraph
to offer evidence that the behavior of cannibal
spadefoot toad tadpoles is unexplainable
to imply that the described behavior is more
relevant to the issue at hand than is the
immediately preceding material

12.	 The passage most strongly supports which one of the
following statements about the mechanism by which
cannibal spadefoot toad tadpoles recognize their kin?
	
(A) 	 It is not dependent solely on the use of visual
cues.
(B) 	 It is neither utilized nor possessed by those
tadpoles that do not become cannibalistic.
(C) 	 It does not always allow a tadpole to distinguish
its siblings from tadpoles that are not siblings.
(D) 	 It is rendered unnecessary by physiological
changes accompanying the dietary shift from
omnivorousness to carnivorousness.
(E) 	 It could not have developed in a species in which
all members are omnivorous.

5

5

5

14.	 The information in the passage most strongly suggests
that the fact that most honeybees exist only to nurture
relatives
(A) 	 was not known to be true before the 1960s
(B) 	 can be explained only if we assume that these
members are in turn nurtured by the relatives
they nurture
(C) 	 is what led most biologists to reject the
traditional view of evolution
(D) 	 calls into question the view that evolution
proceeds by natural selection
(E) 	 is difficult to explain without at least
supplementing the traditional view of evolution
with further explanatory hypotheses
15.	 Which one of the following would, if true, most help to
undermine the author’s evaluation in the last sentence of
the passage?
(A)	
(B)	

(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

Many tiger salamander larvae infected by the
deadly bacterium are not cannibalistic.
The factor that determines which tiger
salamander larvae are carnivorous and which
are omnivorous is not contained in the genetic
makeup of the larvae.
Kin recognition helps tiger salamanders avoid
inbreeding that may be life-threatening to their
offspring.
Noncannibalistic tiger salamanders tend to
produce fewer offspring than cannibalistic tiger
salamanders.
Cannibalistic tiger salamanders are immune
to certain diseases to which noncannibalistic
salamanders are not.

13.	 The passage states which one of the following about the
mechanisms that enable organisms to recognize their
close genetic relatives?
(A)	

(B)	
(C)	
(D)	

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

Test 4

(E)	

The mechanisms are most easily explained if
we assume that they have a similar purpose in
all species regardless of the species’ social or
mental complexities.
The mechanisms have become more clearly
understood, prompting interest in the purpose
they serve.
The mechanisms have become the focus of
theoretical attention only since the 1960s.
The detailed workings of these mechanisms must
be better understood before their purpose can be
fully explained.
The mechanisms operate differently in different
species even when they serve exactly the same
function.

5

5

	
Passage A
		 There is no universally accepted definition within
international law for the term “national minority.” It is
	
most commonly applied to (1) groups of persons—not
	
necessarily citizens—under the jurisdiction of one
(5) 	 country who have ethnic ties to another “homeland”
country, or (2) groups of citizens of a country who
have lasting ties to that country and have no such ties
to any other country, but are distinguished from the
majority of the population by ethnicity, religion, or
(10) 	 language. The terms “people” and “nation” are also
	
vaguely defined in international agreements. Documents
	
that refer to a “nation” generally link the term to the
concept of “nationalism,” which is often associated
with ties to land. It also connotes sovereignty, for
(15) 	 which reason, perhaps, “people” is often used instead
of “nation” for groups subject to a colonial power.
		 While the lack of definition of the terms “minority,”
“people,” and “nation” presents difficulties to numerous
	
minority groups, this lack is particularly problematic
(20) 	 for the Roma (Gypsies). The Roma are not a colonized
	
people, they do not have a homeland, and many do not
	
bear ties to any currently existing country. Some Roma
	
are not even citizens of any country, in part because of
	
their nomadic way of life, which developed in response
(25) 	 to centuries of fleeing persecution. Instead, they have
ethnic and linguistic ties to other groups of Roma that
reside in other countries.

Test 4

t1

	
Passage B
		 Capotorti’s definition of a minority includes four
empirical criteria—a group’s being numerically smaller
(30) 	 than the rest of the population of the state; their being
	
nondominant; their having distinctive ethnic, linguistic,
	
or religious characteristics; and their desiring to
preserve their own culture—and one legal criterion,
that they be citizens of the state in question. This last
(35) 	 element can be problematic, given the previous nomadic
	
character of the Roma, that they still cross borders
between European states to avoid persecution, and that
	
some states have denied them citizenship, and thus
minority status. Because this element essentially
(40) 	 grants the state the arbitrary right to decide if the
Roma constitute a minority without reference to
empirical characteristics, it seems patently unfair that
it should be included in the definition.
		 However, the Roma easily fulfill the four
(45) 	 objective elements of Capotorti’s definition and
should, therefore, be considered a minority in all major
	
European states. Numerically, they are nowhere near a
	
majority, though they number in the hundreds of
thousands, even millions, in some states. Their
(50) 	 nondominant position is evident—they are not even
acknowledged as a minority in some states. The Roma
have a number of distinctive linguistic, ethnic, and
religious characteristics. For example, most speak
Romani, an Indo-European language descended from

5

5

5

(55) 	 Sanskrit. Roma groups also have their own distinctive
legal and court systems, which are group oriented
rather than individual-rights oriented. That they have
	
preserved their language, customs, and identity
through centuries of persecution is evidence enough
(60) 	 of their desire to preserve their culture.
16.	 Which one of the following most accurately expresses
the main point of passage A?
	
(A) 	 Different definitions of certain key terms in
international law conflict with one another in
their application to the Roma.
(B) 	 In at least some countries in which they live, the
Roma are not generally considered a minority
group.
(C) 	 The lack of agreement regarding the definitions
of such terms as “minority,” “people,” and
“nation” is partly due to the unclear application
of the terms to groups such as the Roma.
(D) 	 Any attempt to define such concepts as people,
nation, or minority group will probably fail to
apply to certain borderline cases such as the
Roma.
(E) 	 The absence of a clear, generally agreed-upon
understanding of what constitutes a people,
nation, or minority group is a problem,
especially in relation to the Roma.
17.	 The term “problematic” has which one of the following
meanings in both passage A (line 19) and passage B
(line 35)?
	
(A) 	 giving rise to intense debate
(B) 	 confusing and unclear
(C) 	 resulting in difficulties
(D) 	 difficult to solve
(E) 	 theoretically incoherent

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

5

5

18.	 Which one of the following claims about the Roma is
NOT made in passage A?
	
(A) 	 Those living in one country have ethnic ties to
Roma in other countries.
(B) 	 Some of them practice a nomadic way of life.
(C) 	 They, as a people, have no recognizable
homeland.
(D) 	 In some countries, their population exceeds one
million.
(E) 	 The lack of a completely satisfactory definition
of “minority” is a greater problem for them than
for most.
19.	 The authors’ views regarding the status of the Roma
can most accurately be described in which one of the
following ways?
	
(A) 	 The author of passage A, but not the author
of passage B, disapproves of the latitude that
international law allows individual states in
determining their relations to nomadic Roma
populations.
(B) 	 The author of passage B, but not the author of
passage A, considers the problems of the Roma
to be a noteworthy example of how international
law can be ineffective.
(C) 	 The author of passage B, but not the author
of passage A, considers the Roma to be a
paradigmatic example of a people who do not
constitute a nation.
(D) 	 Both authors would prefer that the political
issues involving the Roma be resolved on
a case-by-case basis within each individual
country rather than through international law.
(E) 	 Both authors consider the problems that the
Roma face in relation to international law to be
anomalous and special.

5

5

5

20.	 The relationship between which one of the following
pairs of documents is most analogous to the relationship
between passage A and passage B?
(A) 	 “The Lack of Clear-Cut Criteria for Classifying
Jobs as Technical Causes Problems for Welders”
and “A Point-by-Point Argument That Welding
Fulfills the Union’s Criteria for Classification of
Jobs as ‘Technical’“
(B) 	 “Why the Current Criteria for Professional
Competence in Welding Have Not Been
Effectively Applied” and “A Review of the
Essential Elements of Any Formal Statement of
Professional Standards”
(C) 	 “The Need for a Revised Definition of the
Concept of Welding in Relation to Other
Technical Jobs” and “An Enumeration and
Description of the Essential Job Duties Usually
Carried Out by Union Welders”
(D) 	 “The Lack of Competent Welders in Our
Company Can Be Attributed to a General
Disregard for Professional and Technical Staff
Recruitment” and “A Discussion of the Factors
That Companies Should Consider in Recruiting
Employees”
(E) 	 “The Conceptual Links Between Professionalism
and Technical Expertise” and “A Refutation
of the Union’s Position Regarding Which
Types of Jobs Should Be Classified as Neither
Professional nor Technical”
21.	 Which one of the following is a principle that can be
most reasonably considered to underlie the reasoning in
both of the passages?

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

Test 4

(A) 	 A definition that is vaguely formulated cannot
serve as the basis for the provisions contained in
a document of international law.
(B) 	 A minority group’s not being officially
recognized as such by the government that has
jurisdiction over it can be detrimental to the
group’s interests.
(C) 	 Provisions in international law that apply only to
minority groups should not be considered valid.
(D) 	 Governments should recognize the legal and
court systems used by minority populations
within their jurisdictions.
(E) 	 A group that often moves back and forth
across a boundary between two countries can
be legitimately considered citizens of both
countries.

5

Test 4

t1

5

		 During most of the nineteenth century, many
French women continued to be educated according
to models long established by custom and religious
tradition. One recent observer has termed the failure
(5) 	 to institute real and lasting educational reform at the
	
end of the eighteenth century a “missed
opportunity”—for in spite of the egalitarian and
secular aims of the French Revolution in 1789, a
	
truly nondiscriminatory education system for both
(10) 	 women and men would not be established in the
country until the 1880s. However, legislators had put
	
forth many proposals for educational reform in the
years just after the revolution; two in particular
attempted to institute educational systems for women
(15) 	 that were, to a great extent, egalitarian.
		 The first of these proposals endeavored to replace
the predominantly religious education that women
originally received in convents and at home with
reformed curricula. More importantly, the proposal
(20) 	 insisted that, because education was a common good
that should be offered to both sexes, instruction
should be available to everyone. By the same token,
teachers would be drawn from both sexes. Thus the
proposal held it essential that schools for both men
(25) 	 and women be established promptly throughout the
country and that these schools be public, a tangible
sign of the state’s interest in all of its citizens. One
limitation of this proposal, however, was that girls,
unlike boys, were to leave school at age eight in
(30) 	 order to be educated at home in the skills necessary
for domestic life and for the raising of families. The
	
second proposal took a more comprehensive
approach. It advocated equal education for women
and men on the grounds that women and men enjoy
(35) 	 the same rights, and it was the only proposal of the
time that called for coeducational schools, which
were presented as a bulwark against the traditional
gender roles enforced by religious tradition. In other
respects, however, this proposal also continued to
(40) 	 define women in terms of their roles in the domestic
sphere and as mothers.
		 That neither proposal was able to envision a
	
system of education that was fully equal for women,
and that neither was adopted into law even as such,
(45) 	 bespeaks the immensity of the cultural and political
obstacles to egalitarian education for women at the
	
time. Nevertheless, the vision of egalitarian
educational reform was not entirely lost. Nearly a
century later, in the early 1880s, French legislators
(50) 	 recalled the earlier proposals in their justification of
new laws that founded public secondary schools for
women, abolished fees for education, and established
compulsory attendance for all students. In order to
pass these reforms, the government needed to
(55) 	 demonstrate that its new standards were rooted in a
	
long philosophical, political, and pedagogical
tradition. Various of the resulting institutions also
made claim to revolutionary origin, as doing so
allowed them to appropriate the legitimacy conferred
(60) 	 by tradition and historical continuity.

5

5

5

22.	 It can be inferred from the passage that the French
legislators who passed new educational laws in the
early 1880s were
	
(A) 	 committed to removing education in the skills
necessary for domestic life from the public
school curriculum
(B) 	 unaware of the difficulties that the earlier
legislators faced when advocating similar
legislation
(C) 	 concerned with improving educational equality
across economic strata as well as between the
sexes
(D) 	 more open to political compromise than were
the legislators who introduced the previous
proposals for reform
(E) 	 more inclined to give religious authorities a
role in education than were the legislators who
introduced the previous proposals for reform
23.	 Which one of the following most accurately describes
the organization of the passage?
	
(A) 	 Education in France during one historical period
is described; two proposals that attempted to
reform the educational system are presented;
inconsistencies within each proposal are
identified and lamented.
(B) 	 The movement toward gender equality in France
during one historical period is discussed; two
proposals for educational reform are presented;
the differences between the proposals and the
educational system of that era are outlined.
(C) 	 The traditional nature of French education for
women is described; proposed breaks with
tradition are discussed, followed by a discussion
of why eventual change required less of a break
with tradition.
(D) 	 The egalitarian aims in France during one
historical period are presented; proposals that
foreshadowed eventual reform are described;
the initial characterization of the aims is
modified.
(E) 	 The nature of education for women in France
during one historical period is described;
proposals for educational reform are presented;
the relationship between the proposals and
eventual reform is indicated.

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

5

5

5

24. 	Suppose that two proposals were put forward by
lawmakers concerning housing reform today. Which
one of the following pairs of proposals is most closely
analogous to the pair of proposals discussed in the
second paragraph of the passage?
(A) 	 “Housing should be made available to
all” and “Real estate practices should be
nondiscriminatory” 			
(B) 	 “Housing should be made available to all” and
“The quality of housing should be improved”
(C) 	 “There should be housing for all who can pay”
and “Housing should be of uniform quality”
(D) 	 “The quality of housing should be improved”
and “Real estate practices should be”
(E) 	 “Low-cost housing should be constructed” and
“Housing should be of uniform quality” 		
		
25.	 According to the passage, the second of the two
proposals discussed was distinctive because it asserted
that 	
				
(A) 	 everyone should both learn and teach
(B) 	 males and females should go to the same schools
(C) 	 education should involve lifelong learning
(D) 	 religious schools should be abolished
(E) 	 education for girls should be both public and
secular 				

5

5

26.	 Based on the passage, the fact that the proposed reforms
were introduced shortly after the French Revolution
most clearly suggests that the proposals
(A) 	 were a reaction to the excesses of the new
government
(B) 	 had their roots in a belief in the power of
education
(C) 	 had vast popular support within French society
(D) 	 treated education for women as a prerequisite to
the implementation of other reforms
(E) 	 were influenced by egalitarian ideals
		
27.	 The author would most likely describe the proposals
mentioned in the passage with which one of the
following statements? 	
	
(A) 	 They espoused reforms that were very modest by
the standards of the day.
(B) 	 They were fundamentally unethical due to their
incomplete view of equality.
(C) 	 They were well-meaning attempts to do as much
as was feasible at the time.
(D) 	 They were reasonable, and it is difficult to
understand why they failed.
(E) 	 They were not adopted because their aims were
not fully comprehensive.

S T O P
IF YOU FINISH BEFORE TIME IS CALLED, YOU MAY CHECK YOUR WORK ON THIS SECTION ONLY.
DO NOT WORK ON ANY OTHER SECTION IN THE TEST.

Test 4

Experimental Section (from December 1997)
Section I - Logical Reasoning
	 Credited
	Response
	
	 1. B
	 2. E
	 3. D
	 4. E
	 5. D
	 6. D
	 7. E
	 8. C
	 9. E
	 10. D
	 11. B
	 12. D
	 13. B
	 14. C
	 15. E
	 16. A
	 17. A
	 18. A
	 19. D
	 20. B
	 21. A
	 22. C
	 23. B
	 24. D
	 25. D
	 26. B
	

Test 4

t1

Computing Your Score
Note: Online scoring will provide a more complete picture of your performance.

Directions:

Conversion Chart:
For Converting Raw Score to the 120-180 LSAT
Scaled Score
LSAT Form 8LSN78

1. 	 Use the Scoring Worksheet below to compute your
	 raw score.
	

2. 	 Use the Score Conversion Chart to convert your
	 raw score into the 120-180 scale.
Scoring Worksheet
1. 	 Enter the number of questions you answered
	 correctly in each section.
Number
Correct
	
	
	
	

SECTION I.	.	 .	 .	 .
SECTION II	.	 .	 .	 .	
SECTION III.	.	 .	 .
SECTION IV.	 .	 .	 .

2. 	 Enter the sum here:	
		
This is your Raw Score.

	Reported		
Raw Score
Score	
Lowest		
98
97
96
__*
95
94
93
92
91
90
89
88
87
85
84
82
81
79
78
76
74
73
71
69
67
66
64
62
60
58
57
55
53
51
50
48
46
45
43
41
40
38
37
35
34
32
31
29
28
27
25
24
23
21
20
19
18
17
15
__*
0

Highest
100
97
96
__*
95
94
93
92
91
90
89
88
87
86
84
83
81
80
78
77
75
73
72
70
68
66
65
63
61
59
57
56
54
52
50
49
47
45
44
42
40
39
37
36
34
33
31
30
28
27
26
24
23
22
20
19
18
17
16
__*
14

Test 4

180
179
178
177
176
175
174
173
172
171
170
169
168
167
166
165
164
163
162
161
160
159
158
157
156
155
154
153
152
151
150
149
148
147
146
145
144
143
142
141
140
139
138
137
136
135
134
133
132
131
130
129
128
127
126
125
124
123
122
121
120

Test 4

t1

