The June 2010 LSAT
Section I....................................35 minutes
Section II...................................35 minutes
Section III..................................35 minutes
Section IV..................................35 minutes
Section V...................................35 minutes

Test 3

The test begins on the next page.

1	

			 1

1	
SECTION I
Time—35 minutes
25 Questions

Directions: The questions in this section are based on the reasoning contained in brief statements or passages. For some questions,
more than one of the choices could conceivably answer the question. However, you are to choose the best answer; that is, the response
that most accurately and completely answers the question. You should not make assumptions that are by commonsense standards
implausible, superfluous, or incompatible with the passage. After you have chosen the best answer, blacken the corresponding space
on your answer sheet.
1.	 Jim’s teacher asked him to determine whether a sample
of a substance contained iron. Jim knew that magnets
attract iron, so he placed a magnet near the substance.
Jim concluded that the substance did contain iron,
because the substance became attached to the magnet.
	

Jim’s reasoning is questionable in that it fails to
consider the possibility that
(A)	
(B)	
(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

iron sometimes fails to be attracted to magnets
iron is attracted to other objects besides magnets
the magnet needed to be oriented in a certain
way
magnets attract substances other than iron
some magnets attract iron more strongly than
others

2.	 All the books in the library have their proper shelf
locations recorded in the catalog. The book Horatio
wants is missing from its place on the library shelves,
and no one in the library is using it. Since it is not
checked out to a borrower nor awaiting shelving nor
part of a special display, it must have been either
misplaced or stolen.

Test 3

	

Which one of the following most accurately describes
the method of reasoning used in the argument?
(A)	
(B)	
(C)	

(D)	
(E)	

An observation about one object is used as a
basis for a general conclusion regarding the
status of similar objects.
A deficiency in a system is isolated by arguing
that the system failed to control one of the
objects that it was intended to control.
A conclusion about a particular object is rebutted
by observing that a generalization that applies to
most such objects does not apply to the object
in question.
A generalization is rejected by showing that it
fails to hold in one particular instance.
The conclusion is supported by ruling out other
possible explanations of an observed fact.

3.	 The level of sulfur dioxide in the atmosphere is slightly
higher than it was ten years ago. This increase is
troubling because ten years ago the Interior Ministry
imposed new, stricter regulations on emissions from
coal-burning power plants. If these regulations had
been followed, then the level of sulfur dioxide in the
atmosphere would have decreased.
	
	
Which one of the following can be properly inferred
from the statements above?
(A)	

(B)	
(C)	

(D)	
(E)	

If current regulations on emissions from coalburning power plants are not followed from
now on, then the level of sulfur dioxide in the
atmosphere will continue to increase.
There have been violations of the regulations on
emissions from coal-burning power plants that
were imposed ten years ago.
If the regulations on emissions from coal-burning
power plants are made even stronger, the level
of sulfur dioxide in the atmosphere still will not
decrease.
Emissions from coal-burning power plants are
one of the main sources of air pollution.
Government regulations will never reduce the
level of sulfur dioxide in the atmosphere.

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

1	

			 1

1	
4.	 Ecologist: Landfills are generally designed to hold ten
years’ worth of waste. Some people maintain that
as the number of active landfills consequently
dwindles over the coming decade, there will
inevitably be a crisis in landfill availability.
However, their prediction obviously relies on
the unlikely assumption that no new landfills
will open as currently active ones close and is
therefore unsound.

6.	 After an oil spill, rehabilitation centers were set up to
save sea otters by removing oil from them. The effort
was not worthwhile, however, since 357 affected live
otters and 900 that had died were counted, but only 222
affected otters, or 18 percent of those counted, were
successfully rehabilitated and survived. Further, the
percentage of all those affected that were successfully
rehabilitated was much lower still, because only a fifth
of the otters that died immediately were ever found.

	

	

The claim that there will be a crisis in landfill
availability plays which one of the following roles in
the ecologist’s argument?
(A)	
(B)	
(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

It follows from the claim stated in the argument’s
first sentence.
It is the main conclusion of the argument.
It establishes the truth of the argument’s
conclusion.
It is a claim on which the argument as a whole is
designed to cast doubt.
It is an intermediate conclusion of the argument.

Which one of the following, as potential challenges,
most seriously calls into question evidence offered in
support of the conclusion above?
(A)	
(B)	
(C)	
(D)	

5.	 Recent epidemiological studies report that Country X
has the lowest incidence of disease P of any country.
Nevertheless, residents of Country X who are reported
to have contracted disease P are much more likely to die
from it than are residents of any other country.
	

Which one of the following, if true, most helps to
resolve the apparent discrepancy described above?
(A)	
(B)	
(C)	

(E)	

7.	 Psychologist: Research has shown that a weakened
immune system increases vulnerability to cancer.
So, cancer-patient support groups, though
derided by those who believe that disease is a
purely biochemical phenomenon, may indeed
have genuine therapeutic value, as it is clear that
participation in such groups reduces participants’
stress levels.
	

Which one of the following is an assumption required
by the psychologist’s argument?
(A)	
(B)	
(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

Cancer patients can learn to function well under
extreme stress.
Disease is not a biochemical phenomenon at all.
Stress can weaken the immune system.
Discussing one’s condition eliminates the stress
of being in that condition.
Stress is a symptom of a weakened immune
system.

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

Test 3

(D)	

There are several forms of disease P, some of
which are more contagious than others.
Most of the fatal cases of disease P found in
Country X involve people who do not reside in
Country X.
In Country X, diagnosis of disease P seldom
occurs except in the most severe cases of the
disease.
The number of cases of disease P that occur in
any country fluctuates widely from year to year.
Because of its climate, more potentially fatal
illnesses occur in Country X than in many other
countries.

(E)	

Do sea otters of species other than those
represented among the otters counted exist in
areas that were not affected by the oil spill?
How is it possible to estimate, of the sea otters
that died, how many were not found?
Did the process of capturing sea otters
unavoidably involve trapping and releasing
some otters that were not affected by the spill?
Were other species of wildlife besides sea otters
negatively affected by the oil spill?
What was the eventual cost, per otter
rehabilitated, of the rehabilitation operation?

1	
8.	 Adobe is an ideal material for building in desert
environments. It conducts heat very slowly. As a result,
a house built of adobe retains the warmth of the desert
sun during the cool evenings and then remains cool
during the heat of the day, thereby helping to maintain a
pleasant temperature. In contrast, houses built of other
commonly used building materials, which conduct heat
more rapidly, grow hot during the day and cold at night.

10. 	Letter to the editor: Sites are needed for disposal of
contaminated dredge spoils from the local harbor.
However, the approach you propose would
damage commercial fishing operations. One
indication of this is that over 20,000 people have
signed petitions opposing your approach and
favoring instead the use of sand-capped pits in
another area.

	

	

Which one of the following most accurately expresses
the main conclusion drawn in the argument above?
(A)	
(B)	
(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

Adobe is a suitable substitute for other building
materials where the heat-conduction properties
of the structure are especially important.
In the desert, adobe buildings remain cool during
the heat of the day but retain the warmth of the
sun during the cool evenings.
Because adobe conducts heat very slowly,
adobe houses maintain a pleasant, constant
temperature.
Ideally, a material used for building houses in
desert environments should enable those houses
to maintain a pleasant, constant temperature.
Adobe is an especially suitable material to use
for building houses in desert environments.

9. 	 In one study of a particular plant species, 70 percent
of the plants studied were reported as having patterned
stems. In a second study, which covered approximately
the same geographical area, only 40 percent of the
plants of that species were reported as having patterned
stems.
	

Which one of the following, if true, most helps to
resolve the apparent discrepancy described above?
(A)	

Test 3

			 1

1	

(B)	
(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

The first study was carried out at the time of
year when plants of the species are at their most
populous.
The first study, but not the second study, also
collected information about patterned stems in
other plant species.
The second study included approximately 15
percent more individual plants than the first
study did.
The first study used a broader definition of
“patterned.”
The focus of the second study was patterned
stems, while the first study collected
information about patterned stems only as a
secondary goal.

Which one of the following most accurately describes a
reasoning flaw in the letter’s argument?
(A)	
(B)	
(C)	

(D)	
(E)	

The argument distorts the editor’s view in
a manner that makes that view seem more
vulnerable to criticism.
The argument fails to establish that the
alternative approach referred to is a viable one.
The argument attempts to establish a particular
conclusion because doing so is in the letter
writer’s self-interest rather than because of any
genuine concern for the truth of the matter.
The argument’s conclusion is based on the
testimony of people who have not been shown
to have appropriate expertise.
The argument takes for granted that no third
option is available that will satisfy all the
interested parties.

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

1	

			 1

1	
11.	 Most universities today offer students a more in-depth
and cosmopolitan education than ever before. Until
recently, for example, most university history courses
required only the reading of textbooks that hardly
mentioned the history of Africa or Asia after the ancient
periods, or the history of the Americas’ indigenous
cultures. The history courses at most universities no
longer display such limitations.
	

	

Which one of the following, if true, most strengthens
the argument above?
(A)	
(B)	

(C)	

(D)	

(E)	

The history courses that university students find
most interesting are comprehensive in their
coverage of various periods and cultures.
Many students at universities whose history
courses require the reading of books covering
all periods and world cultures participate in
innovative study-abroad programs.
The extent to which the textbooks of university
history courses are culturally inclusive is a
strong indication of the extent to which students
at those universities get an in-depth and
cosmopolitan education.
Universities at which the history courses are
quite culturally inclusive do not always have
courses in other subject areas that show the
same inclusiveness.
University students who in their history courses
are required only to read textbooks covering
the history of a single culture will not get an
in-depth and cosmopolitan education from these
courses alone.

The reasoning in the argument is most vulnerable to
criticism on the grounds that it
(A)	

(B)	
(C)	
(D)	

(E)	

fails to consider that, even if the reports are
incomplete, they may nevertheless provide the
public with important information about airline
safety
presumes, without providing justification, that
the public has a right to all information about
matters of public safety
presumes, without providing justification, that
information about airline safety is impossible to
find in the absence of government disclosures
presumes, without providing justification, that
airlines, rather than the government, should be
held responsible for accurate reporting of safety
information
fails to consider whether the publication of
airline safety statistics will have an effect on the
revenues of airlines

Which one of the following, if true, most weakens the
argument?
(A)	
(B)	
(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

Even high wages do not enable people to obtain
all the goods they desire.
In many surveys, people say that they would
prefer a high-wage job to an otherwise identical
job with lower wages.
Jobs that pay the same salary often vary
considerably in their other financial benefits.
Many people enjoy the challenge of a difficult
job, as long as they feel that their efforts are
appreciated.
Some people are not aware that jobs with high
salaries typically leave very little time for
recreation.

14.	 Editorial: A proposed new law would limit elementary
school class sizes to a maximum of 20 students.
Most parents support this measure and argue that
making classes smaller allows teachers to devote
more time to each student, with the result that
students become more engaged in the learning
process. However, researchers who conducted a
recent study conclude from their results that this
reasoning is questionable. The researchers studied
schools that had undergone recent reductions in
class size, and found that despite an increase in
the amount of time teachers spent individually
with students, the students’ average grades were
unchanged.
	

Which one of the following is an assumption required
by the researchers’ argument?
(A)	
(B)	
(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

The only schools appropriate for study are large
elementary schools.
Teachers generally devote the same amount of
individualized attention to each student in a
class.
Reductions in class size would also involve a
decrease in the number of teachers.
Degree of student engagement in the learning
process correlates well with students’ average
grades.
Parental support for the proposed law rests
solely on expectations of increased student
engagement in the learning process.

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

Test 3

12.	 The government has recently adopted a policy of
publishing airline statistics, including statistics about
each airline’s number of near collisions and its fines
for safety violations. However, such disclosure actually
undermines the government’s goal of making the public
more informed about airline safety, because airlines
will be much less likely to give complete reports if such
information will be made available to the public.
	

13.	 Many economists claim that financial rewards provide
the strongest incentive for people to choose one job
over another. But in many surveys, most people do
not name high salary as the most desirable feature of a
job. This shows that these economists overestimate the
degree to which people are motivated by money in their
job choices.

1	
15.	 Camille: Manufacturers of water-saving faucets
exaggerate the amount of money such faucets
can save. Because the faucets handle such a low
volume of water, people using them often let the
water run longer than they would otherwise.
	

	

Rebecca: It is true that showering now takes longer.
Nevertheless, I have had lower water bills since I
installed a water-saving faucet. Thus, it is not true
that the manufacturers’ claims are exaggerated.
The reasoning in Rebecca’s argument is questionable in
that she takes for granted that
(A)	
(B)	
(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

the cost of installing her water-saving faucet was
less than her overall savings on her water bill
she saved as much on her water bills as the
manufacturers’ claims suggested she would
the manufacturers’ claims about the savings
expected from the installation of water-saving
faucets are consistent with one another
people who use water-saving faucets are satisfied
with the low volume of water handled by such
faucets
installing more water-saving faucets in her house
would increase her savings

16.	 Company spokesperson: In lieu of redesigning our
plants, our company recently launched an
environmental protection campaign to buy and
dispose of old cars, which are generally highly
pollutive. Our plants account for just 4 percent
of the local air pollution, while automobiles that
predate 1980 account for 30 percent. Clearly, we
will reduce air pollution more by buying old cars
than we would by redesigning our plants.
	

Test 3

			 1

1	

Which one of the following, if true, most seriously
weakens the company spokesperson’s argument?
(A)	
(B)	

(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

Only 1 percent of the automobiles driven in the
local area predate 1980.
It would cost the company over $3 million to
reduce its plants’ toxic emissions, while its carbuying campaign will save the company money
by providing it with reusable scrap metal.
Because the company pays only scrap metal
prices for used cars, almost none of the cars
sold to the company still run.
Automobiles made after 1980 account for over
30 percent of local air pollution.
Since the company launched its car-buying
campaign, the number of citizen groups filing
complaints about pollution from the company’s
plants has decreased.

17.	 Humankind would not have survived, as it clearly has,
if our ancestors had not been motivated by the desire to
sacrifice themselves when doing so would ensure the
survival of their children or other close relatives. But
since even this kind of sacrifice is a form of altruism,
it follows that our ancestors were at least partially
altruistic.
	

Which one of the following arguments is most similar
in its reasoning to the argument above?
(A)	

(B)	

(C)	

(D)	

(E)	

Students do not raise their grades if they do
not increase the amount of time they spend
studying. Increased study time requires good
time management. However, some students do
raise their grades. So some students manage
their time well.
Organisms are capable of manufacturing
their own carbohydrate supply if they do not
consume other organisms to obtain it. So plants
that consume insects must be incapable of
photosynthesis, the means by which most plants
produce their carbohydrate supplies.
If fragile ecosystems are not protected by
government action their endemic species will
perish, for endemic species are by definition
those that exist nowhere else but in those
ecosystems.
The natural resources used by human beings
will be depleted if they are not replaced
by alternative materials. But since such
replacement generally requires more power, the
resources used to create that power will become
depleted.
Public buildings do not harmonize with their
surroundings if they are not well designed.
But any well-designed building is expensive
to construct. Thus, either public buildings
are expensive to construct or else they do not
harmonize with their surroundings.

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

1	

			 1

1	
18.	 Bus driver: Had the garbage truck not been exceeding
the speed limit, it would not have collided with
the bus I was driving. I, on the other hand, was
abiding by all traffic regulations—as the police
report confirms. Therefore, although I might have
been able to avoid the collision had I reacted more
quickly, the bus company should not reprimand
me for the accident.
	

19.	 Item Removed From Scoring.

Which one of the following principles, if valid, most
helps to justify the reasoning in the bus driver’s
argument?
(A)	

(B)	

(C)	
(D)	

(E)	

If a vehicle whose driver is violating a traffic
regulation collides with a vehicle whose driver
is not, the driver of the first vehicle is solely
responsible for the accident.
A bus company should not reprimand one of its
drivers whose bus is involved in a collision if
a police report confirms that the collision was
completely the fault of the driver of another
vehicle.
Whenever a bus driver causes a collision to
occur by violating a traffic regulation, the bus
company should reprimand that driver.
A company that employs bus drivers should
reprimand those drivers only when they become
involved in collisions that they reasonably could
have been expected to avoid.
When a bus is involved in a collision, the bus
driver should not be reprimanded by the bus
company if the collision did not result from the
bus driver’s violating a traffic regulation.

20.	 Historian: Radio drama requires its listeners to think
about what they hear, picturing for themselves
such dramatic elements as characters’ physical
appearances and spatial relationships. Hence,
while earlier generations, for whom radio drama
was the dominant form of popular entertainment,
regularly exercised their imaginations, today’s
generation of television viewers do so less
frequently.
	

Which one of the following is an assumption required
by the historian’s argument?
(A)	
(B)	

(D)	
(E)	

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

Test 3

(C)	

People spend as much time watching television
today as people spent listening to radio in
radio’s heyday.
The more familiar a form of popular
entertainment becomes, the less likely its
consumers are to exercise their imaginations.
Because it inhibits the development of creativity,
television is a particularly undesirable form of
popular entertainment.
For today’s generation of television viewers,
nothing fills the gap left by radio as a medium
for exercising the imagination.
Television drama does not require its viewers to
think about what they see.

1	
21.	 Each of the candidates in this year’s mayoral election is
a small-business owner. Most small-business owners are
competent managers. Moreover, no competent manager
lacks the skills necessary to be a good mayor. So, most
of the candidates in this year’s mayoral election have
the skills necessary to be a good mayor.
	
	
The pattern of flawed reasoning in which one of the
following is most similar to that in the argument above?
(A)	

(B)	

(C)	

(D)	

(E)	

Test 3

			 1

1	

Anyone who has worked in sales at this company
has done so for at least a year. Most of this
company’s management has worked in its sales
department. So, since no one who has worked
in the sales department for more than a year
fails to understand marketing, most of this
company’s upper management understands
marketing.
Everything on the menu at Maddy’s Shake Shop
is fat-free. Most fat-free foods and drinks are
sugar-free. And all sugar-free foods and drinks
are low in calories. Hence, most items on the
menu at Maddy’s are low in calories.
All the books in Ed’s apartment are hardcover
books. Most hardcover books are more than 100
pages long. Ed has never read a book longer
than 100 pages in its entirety in less than 3
hours. So, Ed has never read any of his books in
its entirety in less than 3 hours.
Each of the avant-garde films at this year’s film
festival is less than an hour long. Most films less
than an hour long do not become commercially
successful. So, since no movie less than an hour
long has an intermission, it follows that most
of the movies at this year’s film festival do not
have an intermission.
All of the bicycle helmets sold in this store
have some plastic in them. Most of the bicycle
helmets sold in this store have some rubber in
them. So, since no helmets that have rubber in
them do not also have plastic in them, it follows
that most of the helmets in this store that have
plastic in them have rubber in them.

22.	 One of the most useful social conventions is money,
whose universality across societies is matched only by
language. Unlike language, which is rooted in an innate
ability, money is an artificial, human invention. Hence,
it seems probable that the invention of money occurred
independently in more than one society.
	
	
The argument’s conclusion is properly drawn if which
one of the following is assumed?
(A)	
(B)	
(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

Some societies have been geographically isolated
enough not to have been influenced by any
other society.
Language emerged independently in different
societies at different times in human history.
Universal features of human society that are not
inventions are rooted in innate abilities.
If money were not useful, it would not be so
widespread.
No human society that adopted the convention of
money has since abandoned it.

23.	 Libel is defined as damaging the reputation of someone
by making false statements. Ironically, strong laws
against libel can make it impossible for anyone in the
public eye to have a good reputation. For the result of
strong libel laws is that, for fear of lawsuits, no one will
say anything bad about public figures.
	

Which one of the following principles, if valid, most
helps to justify the reasoning in the argument?
(A)	
(B)	
(C)	

(D)	
(E)	

The absence of laws against libel makes it
possible for everyone in the public eye to have a
good reputation.
Even if laws against libel are extremely strong
and rigorously enforced, some public figures
will acquire bad reputations.
If one makes statements that one sincerely
believes, then those statements should not be
considered libelous even if they are in fact false
and damaging to the reputation of a public
figure.
In countries with strong libel laws, people make
negative statements about public figures only
when such statements can be proved.
Public figures can have good reputations only
if there are other public figures who have bad
reputations.

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

1	

			 1

1	
24.	 Mammals cannot digest cellulose and therefore cannot
directly obtain glucose from wood. Mushrooms can,
however; and some mushrooms use cellulose to make
highly branched polymers, the branches of which are
a form of glucose called beta-glucans. Beta-glucan
extracts from various types of mushrooms slow, reverse,
or prevent the growth of cancerous tumors in mammals,
and the antitumor activity of beta-glucans increases
as the degree of branching increases. These extracts
prevent tumor growth not by killing cancer cells
directly but by increasing immune-cell activity.
	

Which one of the following is most strongly supported
by the information above?
(A)	
(B)	

(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

Mammals obtain no beneficial health effects
from eating cellulose.
If extracts from a type of mushroom slow,
reverse, or prevent the growth of cancerous
tumors in mammals, then the mushroom is
capable of using cellulose to make beta-glucans.
The greater the degree of branching of betaglucans, the greater the degree of immune-cell
activity it triggers in mammals.
Immune-cell activity in mammals does not
prevent tumor growth by killing cancer cells.
Any organism capable of obtaining glucose from
wood can use cellulose to make beta-glucans.

25.	 A law is successful primarily because the behavior it
prescribes has attained the status of custom. Just as
manners are observed not because of sanctions attached
to them but because, through repetition, contrary
behavior becomes unthinkable, so societal laws are
obeyed not because the behavior is ethically required
or because penalties await those who act otherwise, but
because to act otherwise would be uncustomary.
	

Which one of the following comparisons is utilized by
the argument?
(A)	
(B)	
(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

As with manners and other customs, laws vary
from society to society.
As with manners, the primary basis for a society
to consider when adopting a law is custom.
As with manners, the main factor accounting for
compliance with laws is custom.
As with manners, most laws do not prescribe
behavior that is ethically required.
As with manners, most laws do not have strict
penalties awaiting those who transgress them.

S T O P
IF YOU FINISH BEFORE TIME IS CALLED, YOU MAY CHECK YOUR WORK ON THIS SECTION ONLY.
DO NOT WORK ON ANY OTHER SECTION IN THE TEST.

Test 3

2	

2	 2		
2

2 	
SECTION II
Time—35 minutes
25 Questions

Directions: The questions in this section are based on the reasoning contained in brief statements or passages. For some questions,
more than one of the choices could conceivably answer the question. However, you are to choose the best answer; that is, the response
that most accurately and completely answers the question. You should not make assumptions that are by commonsense standards
implausible, superfluous, or incompatible with the passage. After you have chosen the best answer, blacken the corresponding space
on your answer sheet.
1.	 When politicians resort to personal attacks, many
	
editorialists criticize these attacks but most voters pay
them scant attention. Everyone knows such attacks will
end after election day, and politicians can be excused
for mudslinging. Political commentators, however,
cannot be. Political commentators should be engaged in
sustained and serious debate about ideas and policies.
In such a context, personal attacks on opponents serve
not to beat those opponents but to cut off the debate.

2. 	 Throughout the Popoya Islands community pressure is
	
exerted on people who win the national lottery to share
their good fortune with their neighbors. When people
living in rural areas win the lottery they invariably
throw elaborate neighborhood feasts, often wiping out
all of their lottery winnings. However, in the cities,
lottery winners frequently use their winnings for their
own personal investment rather than sharing their good
fortune with their neighbors.

	

	

Which one of the following most accurately states the
main point of the argument?

Test 3

(A) 	 Personal attacks on opponents serve a useful
		 purpose for politicians.
(B) 	 Political commentators should not resort to
		 personal attacks on their opponents.
(C) 	 Editorialists are right to criticize politicians who
		 resort to personal attacks on their opponents.
(D) 	 The purpose of serious debate about ideas and
		 policies is to counteract the effect of personal
		 attacks by politicians.
(E) 	 Voters should be concerned about the personal
		 attacks politicians make on each other.

Which one of the following, if true, contributes most to
an explanation of the difference between the behavior
of lottery winners in rural areas and those in cities?
(A) 	 Twice as many Popoyans live in rural areas as
live in the city.
(B) 	 Popoyan city dwellers tend to buy several lottery
tickets at a time, but they buy tickets less
frequently than do rural dwellers.
(C) 	 Lottery winners in rural areas are notified of
winning by public posting of lists of winners,
but notification in the city is by private mail.
(D) 	 Families in rural areas in the Popoyas may
contain twelve or fourteen people, but city
families average six or seven.
(E) 	 Twice as many lottery tickets are sold in rural
areas as are sold in the city.

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

2	

2	 2		
2

2 	
3. 	 A new medication for migraine seems effective, but
there is concern that the medication might exacerbate
heart disease. If patients with heart disease take the
medication under careful medical supervision, however,
harmful side effects can definitely be averted. The
concern about those side effects is thus unfounded.
	

The argument depends on which one of the following 	
assumptions?
(A) 	 The new medication actually is effective when
taken by patients with heart disease.
(B) 	 No migraine sufferers with heart disease will
take the new medication except under careful
medical supervision.
(C) 	 Most migraine sufferers who have taken the new 	
medication in trials also had heart disease.
(D) 	 The new medication has various other
side effects, but none as serious as that of
exacerbating heart disease.
(E) 	 The new medication will displace all migraine
medications currently being used.

4. 	 The highest‑ranking detectives in the city’s police
	
department are also the most adept at solving crimes.
Yet in each of the past ten years, the average success
rate for the city’s highest‑ranking detectives in solving
criminal cases has been no higher than the average
success rate for its lowest‑ranking detectives.
	

Which one of the following, if true, most helps to
resolve the apparent paradox?

(A) 	 makes exaggerations in formulating the claim
against which it argues
(B) 	 bases its conclusion on two contradictory claims
(C) 	 relies on evidence the relevance of which has not
been established
(D) 	 concedes the very point that it argues against
(E) 	 makes a generalization that is unwarranted
because the sources of the data on which it is
based have not been specified
6. 	 Copyright laws protect the rights of writers to profits
	
earned from their writings, whereas patent laws protect
inventors’ rights to profits earned from their inventions.
In Jawade, when computer‑software writers demanded
that their rights to profit be protected, the courts
determined that information written for a machine does
not fit into either the copyright or the patent category.
Clearly, therefore, the profit rights of computer‑software
writers remain unprotected in Jawade.
	

Which one of the following is an assumption on which
the argument depends?
(A) 	 Computer‑software writers are not an influential 	
enough group in Jawade for the government to 	
consider modifying existing copyright laws in 	
order to protect this group’s profit rights.
(B) 	 No laws exist, other than copyright laws and
patent laws, that would protect the profit rights
of computer‑software writers in Jawade.
(C) 	 Most of the computer software used in Jawade is 	
imported from other countries.
(D) 	 Computer software is more similar to writings 	
covered by copyright laws than it is to
inventions covered by patent laws.
(E) 	 Copyright laws and patent laws in Jawade have
not been modified since their original adoption.

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

Test 3

(A) 	 The detectives who have the highest success rate
in solving criminal cases are those who have
worked as detectives the longest.
(B) 	 It generally takes at least ten years for a detective
to rise from the lowest to the highest ranks of
the city’s detective force.
(C) 	 Those detectives in the police department who
are the most adept at solving criminal cases are
also those most likely to remain in the police 	
department.
(D) 	 The police department generally gives the
criminal cases that it expects to be the easiest to
solve to its lowest‑ranking detectives.
(E) 	 None of the lowest‑ranking detectives in the
police department had experience in solving
criminal cases prior to joining the police
department.

5. 	 Irrigation runoff from neighboring farms may well have 	
increased the concentration of phosphorus in the local
swamp above previous levels, but the claim that the
increase in phosphorus is harming the swamp’s native
aquatic wildlife is false; the phosphorus concentration
in the swamp is actually less than that found in certain
kinds of bottled water that some people drink every day.
	
	
The argument is vulnerable to criticism on the ground
	
that it

2	

7. 	 Brownlea’s post office must be replaced with a larger
one. The present one cannot be expanded. Land near
	
the present location in the center of town is more
expensive than land on the outskirts of town. Since the
cost of acquiring a site is a significant part of the total
construction cost, the post office clearly could be built
more cheaply on the outskirts of town.
	

Which one of the following, if true, most seriously 	
undermines the argument’s stated conclusion?
(A) 	 The new post office will have to be built in
accordance with a demanding new citywide
building code.
(B) 	 If the new post office is built on the outskirts of
town, it will require a parking lot, but if sited
near the present post office it will not.
(C) 	 If the new post office is built on the outskirts of
town, current city bus routes will have to be
expanded to provide access.
(D) 	 If the new post office is built on the outskirts of
town, residents will make decreased use of post 	
office boxes, with the result that mail carriers
will have to deliver more mail to homes.
(E) 	 If the new post office is built near the center of
town, disruptions to city traffic would have to
be minimized by taking such steps as doing
some construction work in stages at night and
on weekends.

Test 3

2	 2		
2

2 	
9. 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	

Although Damon had ample time earlier in the month
to complete the paper he is scheduled to present at
a professional conference tomorrow morning, he
repeatedly put off doing it. Damon could still get
the paper ready in time, but only if he works on it
all evening without interruption. However, his
seven‑year‑old daughter’s tap‑dance recital takes
place this evening, and Damon had promised both
to attend and to take his daughter and her friends
out for ice cream afterward. Thus, because of his 		
procrastination, Damon will be forced to choose
between his professional and his family responsibilities.

	

The argument proceeds by
(A) 	 providing evidence that one event will occur
in order to establish that an alternative event
cannot occur
(B) 	 showing that two situations are similar in order
to justify the claim that someone with certain 	
responsibilities in the first situation has similar 	
responsibilities in the second situation
(C) 	 invoking sympathy for someone who finds
himself in a dilemma in order to excuse
that person’s failure to meet all of his
responsibilities
(D) 	 making clear the extent to which someone’s
actions resulted in harm to others in order
to support the claim that those actions were
irresponsible
(E) 	 demonstrating that two situations cannot both
occur by showing that something necessary for
one of those situations is incompatible with
something necessary for the other situation

8. 	 In the past, the railroads in Ostronia were run as
regional monopolies and operated with little regard
for what customers wanted. In recent years, with
improvements to the Ostronian national highway
network, the railroad companies have faced heavy
competition from long-distance trucking companies.
But because of government subsidies that have
permitted Ostronian railroad companies to operate
even while incurring substantial losses, the companies
continue to disregard customers’ needs and desires.

10.	 The increase in the price of jet fuel is due to a sharp
	
decrease over the past year in the supply of jet fuel
available relative to demand. Nonetheless, the amount
of jet fuel available for sale is larger today than it was
last year.

	

	

If the statements above are true, which one of the 	
following must also be true on the basis of them?
(A) 	 If the government of Ostronia ceases to subsidize 	
railroad companies, few of those companies will	
continue to operate.
(B) 	 Few companies in Ostronia that have received
subsidies from the government have taken
the needs and desires of their customers into
account.
(C) 	 Without government subsidies, railroad
companies in Ostronia would have to increase
the prices they charge their customers.
(D) 	 The transportation system in Ostronia is no more 	
efficient today than it was in the past.
(E) 	 In recent years, some companies in Ostronia that 	
have had little regard for the desires of their 	
customers have nonetheless survived.

If the statements above are true, which one of the
following conclusions can be properly drawn on the
basis of them?
(A) 	 The demand for jet fuel has increased over the
past year.
(B) 	 The fuel efficiency of jet engines has increased
over the past year.
(C) 	 The number of jet airline flights has decreased
over the past year.
(D) 	 The cost of refining petroleum for jet fuel has
increased over the past year.
(E) 	 The supply of petroleum available for jet fuel has
decreased over the past year.

				
GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

2	

2	 2		
2

2 	
Questions 11‑12
Alan: Government subsidies have been proposed in Cariana
to encourage farmers in Rochelle, the country’s
principal agricultural region, to implement certain
new farming techniques. Unless these techniques are
implemented, erosion of productive topsoil cannot
be controlled. Unfortunately, farmers cannot afford
to shoulder the entire cost of the new techniques,
which are more expensive than those currently used.
Therefore, without subsidies, agricultural output in
Rochelle will inevitably decline.

13.	 Astronomers have long thought that the irregularity
	
in the orbit of the planet Neptune was adequately
explained by the gravitational pull exerted on Neptune
by the planet Pluto. The most recent observations
of Pluto, however, indicate that this planet is much
too small to exert the amount of gravitational pull on
Neptune that astronomers once thought it did.
	

(A) 	 Neptune is somewhat larger than scientists once
believed it to be.
(B) 	 The orbit of Neptune is considerably more
irregular than scientists once thought it was.
(C) 	 There exists another, as yet undiscovered planet
with an orbit beyond that of Pluto.
(D) 	 The gravitational pull of Pluto is not the sole
cause of Neptune’s irregular orbit.
(E) 	 Further observations of Pluto will eventually
show it to be even smaller than it is now thought
to be.

Betty: But erosion in Rochelle is caused by recurring floods,
which will end next year once Cariana completes the
hydroelectric dam it is building across the region’s
major river. Therefore, Rochelle’s total agricultural
output will stabilize at its present level even without
subsidies.
11.	 Which one of the following is an assumption on which 	
Betty’s argument depends?

12.	 Betty uses which one of the following argumentative 	
techniques in countering Alan’s argument?
(A) 	 showing that one premise in Alan’s argument
is inconsistent with another premise in his
argument
(B) 	 making additional claims that, if correct,
undermine a premise in Alan’s argument
(C) 	 demonstrating that Alan’s conclusion is true but
not for the reasons Alan gives to support it
(D) 	 presenting evidence indicating that the policy
Alan 	argues in favor of would have damaging
consequences that outweigh its positive
consequences
(E) 	 pointing out that Alan’s argument mistakenly
identifies something as the cause of a trend
when it is really an effect of that trend

	

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

Test 3

(A) 	 Building a dam across Rochelle’s major
river will not reduce any recurrent flooding
that occurs in regions of Cariana other than
Rochelle.
(B) 	 The new farming techniques that must be
implemented to control soil erosion in Rochelle 	
are not well suited to other regions of Cariana.
(C) 	 The current yearly output, if any, from Rochelle’s
land that will be permanently under water once 	
the dam is completed will at least be matched
by additional yearly output from Rochelle’s 	
remaining land.
(D) 	 The cost to the government of Cariana to operate
the hydroelectric dam will not be greater than
the projected cost of subsidizing the farmers of 	
Rochelle in the implementation of the new 	
farming techniques.
(E) 	 The government of Cariana has sufficient
financial resources both to subsidize its farmers’ 	
implementation of new farming techniques and
to operate a hydroelectric dam.

If the statements above are true, they provide the most 	
support for which one of the following?

2	

2	 2		
2

2 	
Questions 14‑15
	
In most corporations the salaries of executives are set
by a group from the corporation’s board of directors. Since
the board’s primary mission is to safeguard the economic
health of the corporation rather than to make its executives
rich, this way of setting executives’ salaries is expected to
prevent excessively large salaries. But, clearly, this
expectation is based on poor reasoning. After all, most
members of a corporation’s board are themselves executives
of some corporation and can expect to benefit from setting
generous benchmarks for executives’ salaries.
14.	 The point made by the author is that the most common
	
way of setting executives’ salaries might not keep those
salaries in bounds because

16.	 Consumer advocate: One advertisement that is
deceptive, and thus morally wrong, states that
“gram for gram, the refined sugar used in our
chocolate pies is no more fattening than the sugars 	
found in fruits and vegetables.” This is like trying
to persuade someone that chocolate pies are not
fattening by saying that, calorie for calorie, they
are no more fattening than celery. True, but it
would take a whole shopping cart full of celery to
equal a chocolate pie’s worth of calories.
	

Advertiser: This advertisement cannot be called
deceptive. It is, after all, true.

	

Which one of the following principles, if established,
would do most to support the consumer advocate’s
position against the advertiser’s response?

Test 3

(A) 	 most corporate executives, thanks to their
generous salaries, are not financially dependent
on money earned as board members
(B) 	 most corporate executives might be less generous
in setting their own salaries than the board
members actually setting them are
(C) 	 many board members might let their self‑interest
as executives interfere with properly discharging
their role, as board members, in setting
executives’ salaries
(D) 	 many board members who set executives’
salaries unreasonably high do so because they
happen to be on the board of a corporation of
which they expect later to become executives
(E) 	 many board members are remunerated
generously and wish to protect this source of
income by pleasing the executives to whom they
owe their appointments on the board
15.	 Which one of the following practices is vulnerable to a
	
line of criticism most parallel to that used in the
argument in the passage?
(A) 	 in medical malpractice suits, giving physicians
not directly involved in a suit a major role in 	
determining the damages due to successful 	
plaintiffs
(B) 	 in a legislature, allowing the legislators to
increase their own salaries only if at least
two‑thirds of them vote in favor of an increase
(C) 	 on a factory floor, giving workers an incentive
to work both fast and accurately by paying
them by the piece but counting only pieces of
acceptable quality
(D) 	 in a sports competition decided by judges’
scores, selecting the judges from among people
retired from that sport after successful careers
(E) 	 in a business organization, distributing a group
bonus among the members of a task force on the
basis of a confidential evaluation, by each 	
member, of the contribution made by each of
the others.

(A) 	 It is morally wrong to seek to persuade by use of
deceptive statements.
(B) 	 A true statement should be regarded as deceptive
only if the person making the statement believes 	
it to be false, and thus intends the people
reading or hearing it to acquire a false belief.
(C) 	 To make statements that impart only a small
proportion of the information in one’s
possession should not necessarily be regarded
as deceptive.
(D) 	 It is morally wrong to make a true statement in a 	
manner that will deceive hearers or readers of
the statement into believing that it is false.
(E) 	 A true statement should be regarded as deceptive
if it is made with the expectation that people 	
hearing or reading the statement will draw a
false conclusion from it.
			
	

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

2	

2	 2		
2

2 	
17. 	Members of the Amazonian Akabe people commonly
take an early‑morning drink of a tea made from the
leaves of a forest plant. Although they greatly enjoy
this drink, at dawn they drink it only in small amounts.
Anthropologists hypothesize that since this tea is
extraordinarily high in caffeine, the explanation for the
Akabe’s not drinking more of it at dawn is that high
caffeine intake would destroy the surefootedness that
their daily tasks require.

19.	 Spectroscopic analysis has revealed the existence
of frozen nitrogen, methane, and carbon monoxide
on the surface of Pluto. Such ices have a tendency
to vaporize, producing an atmosphere. Since the
proportion of any gas in such an atmosphere depends
directly on how readily the corresponding ice vaporizes,
astronomers have concluded that the components of
Pluto’s atmosphere are nitrogen, carbon monoxide, and
methane, in order of decreasing abundance.

	

	

Which one of the following, if true, most seriously calls
the anthropologists’ explanation into question?
(A) 	 The drink is full of nutrients otherwise absent
from the Akabe diet.
(B) 	 The Akabe also drink the tea in the evening, after
their day’s work is done.
(C) 	 The leaves used for the tea contain a soluble
narcotic.
(D) 	 Akabe children are introduced to the tea in only a
very weak form.
(E) 	 When celebrating, the Akabe drink the tea in
large quantities.

18. 	All of the cargo ships of the Blue Star Line are over 100
	
meters long, and all of its passenger ships are under 100
meters long. Most of the ships of the Blue Star Line
were built before 1980. All of the passenger and cargo
ships of the Gold Star Line were built after 1980, and
all are under 100 meters long. The dockside facilities of
Port Tropica, which is open only to ships of these two
lines, can accommodate only those ships that are less
than 100 meters long. The S.S. Coral is a cargo ship
that is currently docked at Port Tropica.
	

The astronomers’ argument relies on which one of the 	
following assumptions?
(A) 	 There is no more frozen nitrogen on the surface
of Pluto than there is either frozen carbon
monoxide or methane.
(B) 	 Until space probes reach Pluto, direct analysis of
the atmosphere is impossible.
(C) 	 There is no frozen substance on the surface of
Pluto that vaporizes more readily than methane
but less readily than carbon monoxide.
(D) 	 Nitrogen is found in the atmosphere of a planet
only if nitrogen ice is found on the surface of
that planet.
(E) 	 A mixture of nitrogen, carbon monoxide, and
methane is characteristic of the substances from 	
which the Solar System formed.

			
	

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

If the statements above are true, which one of the
following must be true on the basis of them?
The S.S. Coral was built after 1980.
The S.S. Coral belongs to the Blue Star Line.
Port Tropica is served only by cargo ships.
Port Tropica is not served by ships of the Blue
Star Line.
(E) 	 All of the ships of the Blue Star Line are older
than any of the ships of the Gold Star Line.

Test 3

(A) 	
(B) 	
(C) 	
(D) 	

2	

20. 	Ann will either take a leave of absence from
Technocomp and return in a year or else she will quit
her job there; but she would not do either one unless
she were offered a one‑year teaching fellowship at a
prestigious university. Technocomp will allow her to
take a leave of absence if it does not find out that she
has been offered the fellowship, but not otherwise. 	
Therefore, Ann will quit her job at Technocomp only
	
if Technocomp finds out she has been offered the
fellowship.
	

Which one of the following, if assumed, allows the 	
conclusion above to be properly drawn?
(A) 	 Technocomp will find out about Ann being
offered the fellowship only if someone informs
on her.
(B) 	 The reason Ann wants the fellowship is so she
can quit her job at Technocomp.
(C) 	 Technocomp does not allow any of its employees
to take a leave of absence in order to work for
one of its competitors.
(D) 	 Ann will take a leave of absence if Technocomp
allows her to take a leave of absence.
(E) 	 Ann would be offered the fellowship only if she
quit her fob at Technocomp.

Test 3

2	 2		
2

2 	

21. 	If a mechanical aerator is installed in a fish pool, the
water in the pool can be properly aerated. So, since
John’s fish pool does not have a mechanical aerator, it
must be that his pool is not properly aerated. Without
properly aerated water, fish cannot thrive. Therefore,
any fish in John’s fish pool will not thrive.
	

Which one of the following arguments contains an
error of reasoning that is also contained in the argument
above?
(A) 	 If alum is added to pickle brine, brine can
replace the water in the pickles. Therefore, since
Paula does not add alum to her pickle brine,
the water in the pickles cannot be replaced by
brine. Unless their water is replaced with brine,
pickles will not stay crisp. Thus, Paula’s pickles
will not stay crisp.
(B) 	 If pectin is added to jam, the jam will gel.
Without a setting agent such as pectin, jam will
not gel. So in order to make his jam gel, Harry
should add a setting agent such as pectin to the
jam.
(C) 	 If stored potatoes are not exposed to ethylene, the
potatoes will not sprout. Beets do not release 	
ethylene. Therefore, if Sara stores her potatoes 	
together with beets, the potatoes will not sprout.
(D) 	 If a carrot patch is covered with mulch in the
fall, the carrots can be left in the ground until
spring. Without a mulch cover, carrots stored in
the ground can suffer frost damage. Thus, since
Kevin covers his carrot 	patch with mulch in the
fall, the carrots can safely be left in the ground.
(E) 	 If tomatoes are not stored in a dark place, their
seeds sometimes sprout. Sprouted seeds can
make tomatoes inedible. Therefore, since Maria
does not store her tomatoes in a dark place,
some of Maria’s tomatoes could be inedible.

				
GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

2	

2	 2		
2

2 	
Questions 22‑23

Questions 24‑25

Antinuclear activist: The closing of the nuclear power plant
is a victory for the antinuclear cause. It also represents
a belated acknowledgment by the power industry that
they cannot operate such plants safely.

Statistician: Changes in the Sun’s luminosity correlate
	
exceedingly well with average land temperatures on
	
Earth. Clearly—and contrary to accepted opinion
among meteorologists—the Sun’s luminosity
essentially controls land temperatures on Earth.
	
Meteorologist: I disagree. Any professional meteorologist
	
will tell you that in a system as complicated as that
	
giving rise to the climate, no significant aspect can be
	
controlled by a single variable.

Nuclear power plant manager: It represents no such thing.
	
The availability of cheap power from nonnuclear
sources, together with the cost of mandated safety
inspections and safety repairs, made continued
operation uneconomic. Thus it was not safety
considerations but economic considerations 		
that dictated the plant’s closing.
22.	 The reasoning in the manager’s argument is flawed
because the argument
(A) 	 fails to acknowledge that the power industry
might now believe nuclear power plants to be
unsafe even though this plant was not closed for
safety reasons
(B) 	 overlooks the possibility that the sources
from which cheap power is available might
themselves be subject to safety concerns
(C) 	 mistakes the issue of what the closure of the
plant 	represents to the public for the issue of
what the managers’ reasons for the closure were
(D) 	 takes as one of its premises a view about the
power industry’s attitude toward nuclear safety
that contradicts the activist’s view
(E) 	 counts as purely economic considerations some
expenses that arise as a result of the need to take 	
safety precautions

24.	 The rejection by the meteorologist of the statistician’s
	
conclusion employs which one of the following
	
techniques of argumentation?
(A) 	 supporting a conclusion about a specific case by
invoking a relevant generalization
(B) 	 producing a single counterexample that
establishes that a generalization is false as stated
(C) 	 reanalyzing a correlation as reflecting the
multiple effects of a single cause
(D) 	 rejecting a conclusion because it is a proposition
that cannot be experimentally tested
(E) 	 pointing out that potentially unfavorable
evidence has been systematically neglected
25.	 The reasoning in the meteorologist’s counterargument
is questionable because that argument

23.	 Which one of the following, if true, most strongly
supports the activist’s claim of victory?
(A) 	 The plant had reached the age at which its
operating license expired.
(B) 	 The mandate for inspections and repairs
mentioned by the manager was recently enacted
as a result of pressure from antinuclear groups.
(C) 	 The plant would not have closed if cheap power
from nonnuclear sources had not been available.
(D) 	 Per unit of electricity produced, the plant had the
highest operating costs of any nuclear power
plant.
(E) 	 The plant that closed had been able to provide
backup power to an electrical network when
Darts of the network became overloaded.

	

S T O P
IF YOU FINISH BEFORE TIME IS CALLED, YOU MAY CHECK YOUR WORK ON THIS SECTION ONLY.
DO NOT WORK ON ANY OTHER SECTION IN THE TEST.

Test 3

(A) 	 rejects a partial explanation, not because it is
incorrect, but only because it is not complete
(B) 	 fails to distinguish phenomena that exist
independently of a particular system from
phenomena that exist only as part of the system
(C) 	 calls into question the existence of a correlation
when the only real issue is that of how to
interpret the correlation
(D) 	 dismisses a hypothesis on the grounds that
it fails to deal with any matters of scientific
significance
(E) 	 appeals to the authoritativeness of an opinion
without evaluating the merit of a putative
counterexample

3	

3	 3	 3		
3	
SECTION III
Time—35 minutes
23 Questions
Directions:

Each group of questions in this section is based on a set of conditions. In answering some of the questions, it may
be useful to draw a rough diagram. Choose the response that most accurately and completely answers each question and
blacken the corresponding space on your answer sheet.

Questions 1–6
A community center will host six arts-and-crafts
workshops—Jewelry, Kite-making, Needlepoint, Quilting,
Rug-making, and Scrapbooking. The workshops will be
given on three consecutive days: Wednesday, Thursday, and
Friday. Each workshop will be given once, and exactly two
workshops will be given per day, one in the morning and
one in the afternoon. The schedule for the workshops is
subject to the following constraints:
Jewelry must be given in the morning, on the same day
as either Kite-making or Quilting.
Rug-making must be given in the afternoon, on the
same day as either Needlepoint or Scrapbooking.
Quilting must be given on an earlier day than both
Kite-making and Needlepoint.

Test 3

1.	 Which one of the following is an acceptable schedule
for the workshops, with each day’s workshops listed in
the order in which they are to be given?
(A)	
	
	
(B) 	
	
	
(C) 	
	
	
(D) 	
	
	
(E)	
	
	

Wednesday: Jewelry, Kite-making
Thursday: Quilting, Scrapbooking
Friday: Needlepoint, Rug-making
Wednesday: Jewelry, Quilting
Thursday: Kite-making, Needlepoint
Friday: Scrapbooking, Rug-making
Wednesday: Quilting, Needlepoint
Thursday: Scrapbooking, Rug-making
Friday: Jewelry, Kite-making
Wednesday: Quilting, Scrapbooking
Thursday: Jewelry, Kite-making
Friday: Rug-making, Needlepoint
Wednesday: Scrapbooking, Rug-making
Thursday: Quilting, Jewelry
Friday: Kite-making, Needlepoint

3.	 Which one of the following pairs of workshops
CANNOT be the ones given on Wednesday morning
and Wednesday afternoon, respectively?
(A) 	
(B) 	
(C) 	
(D) 	
(E) 	

Jewelry, Kite-making
Jewelry, Quilting
Quilting, Scrapbooking
Scrapbooking, Quilting
Scrapbooking, Rug-making

4.	 If Kite-making is given on Friday morning, then which
one of the following could be true?
(A) 	
(B) 	
(C) 	
(D) 	
(E) 	

Jewelry is given on Thursday morning.
Needlepoint is given on Thursday afternoon.
Quilting is given on Wednesday morning.
Rug-making is given on Friday afternoon.
Scrapbooking is given on Wednesday afternoon.

5.	 If Quilting is given in the morning, then which one
of the following workshops CANNOT be given on
Thursday?
(A) 	 Jewelry
(B)	Kite-making
(C)	Needlepoint
(D)	Rug-making
(E)	Scrapbooking
6.	 How many of the workshops are there that could be the
one given on Wednesday morning?
(A) 	
(B) 	
(C) 	
(D) 	
(E) 	

one
two
three
four
five

2.	 Which one of the following workshops CANNOT be
given on Thursday morning?
(A)	Jewelry
(B)	Kite-making
(C)	Needlepoint
(D)	Quilting
(E)	Scrapbooking

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

3	

3	 3	 3		
3	
Questions 7-12
Exactly six actors—Geyer, Henson, Jhalani, Lin, Mitchell,
and Paredes—will appear one after another in the opening
credits of a television program. Their contracts contain
certain restrictions that affect the order in which they can
appear. Given these restrictions, the order in which the
actors appear, from first to sixth, must conform to the
following:
Both Lin and Mitchell appear earlier than Henson.
Both Lin and Paredes appear earlier than Jhalani.
If Mitchell appears earlier than Paredes, then Henson
appears earlier than Geyer.
Geyer does not appear last.
7.	 Which one of the following could be the order, from
first to last, in which the actors appear?
(A)	
(B)	
(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

Geyer, Lin, Jhalani, Paredes, Mitchell, Henson
Geyer, Mitchell, Paredes, Lin, Henson, Jhalani
Henson, Lin, Paredes, Jhalani, Geyer, Mitchell
Lin, Paredes, Mitchell, Henson, Jhalani, Geyer
Paredes, Mitchell, Lin, Jhalani, Geyer, Henson

8.	 Which one of the following CANNOT be true?
(A)	
(B)	
(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

Henson appears earlier than Geyer.
Henson appears sixth.
Lin appears fifth.
Paredes appears earlier than Mitchell.
Paredes appears second.

9.	 Exactly how many of the actors are there any one of whom
could appear sixth?
(A)	5
(B)	 4
(C)	 3
(D)	 2
(E)	 1

10.	 If Jhalani appears earlier than Mitchell, then which one
of the following could be the order in which the other
four actors appear, from earliest to latest?
(A)	
(B)	
(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

Geyer, Lin, Paredes, Henson
Geyer, Paredes, Henson, Lin
Lin, Henson, Geyer, Paredes
Lin, Paredes, Henson, Geyer
Paredes, Lin, Henson, Geyer

11.	 If Lin appears immediately before Geyer, then which
one of the following must be true?
(A)	
(B)	
(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

Geyer appears no later than third.
Henson appears last.
Lin appears no later than third.
Mitchell appears earlier than Geyer.
Paredes appears first.

12.	 If Mitchell appears first, then which one of the
following must be true?
(A)	
(B)	
(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

Geyer appears fifth.
Henson appears third.
Jhalani appears sixth.
Lin appears second.
Paredes appears fourth.

Test 3

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

3	

3	 3	 3		
3	
Questions 13–17
Over the course of one day, a landscaper will use a truck
to haul exactly seven loads—three loads of mulch and four
loads of stone. The truck’s cargo bed will be cleaned in
between carrying any two loads of different materials. To
meet the landscaper’s needs as efficiently as possible, the
following constraints apply:
The cargo bed cannot be cleaned more than three times.
The fifth load must be mulch.
13.	 Which one of the following is a pair of loads that can
both be mulch?
(A)	
(B)	
(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

the first and the third
the second and the third
the second and the sixth
the third and the sixth
the fourth and the sixth

14.	 Which one of the following must be true?
(A)	
(B)	
(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

The second load is stone.
The first and second loads are the same material.
The second and third loads are different
materials.
At least two loads of mulch are hauled
consecutively.
At least three loads of stone are hauled
consecutively.

15.	 If the third load is mulch, which one of the following
must be true?
(A)	
(B)	
(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

The sixth load is a different material than the
seventh load.
The first load is a different material than the
second load.
The seventh load is mulch.
The sixth load is mulch.
The first load is stone.

16.	 If the cargo bed is cleaned exactly twice, which one of
the following must be true?
(A)	
(B)	
(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

The second load is stone.
The third load is mulch.
The third load is stone.
The sixth load is mulch.
The seventh load is mulch.

17.	 If no more than two loads of the same material are
hauled consecutively, then which one of the following
could be true?
(A)	
(B)	
(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

The first load is stone.
The fourth load is stone.
The third load is mulch.
The sixth load is mulch.
The seventh load is mulch.

Test 3

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

3	

3	 3	 3		
3	
Questions 18–23
A travel magazine has hired six interns—Farber,
Gombarick, Hall, Jackson, Kanze, and Lha—to assist in
covering three stories—Romania, Spain, and Tuscany. Each
intern will be trained either as a photographer’s assistant
or as a writer’s assistant. Each story is assigned a team of
two interns—one photographer’s assistant and one writer’s
assistant—in accordance with the following conditions:
Gombarick and Lha will be trained in the same field.
Farber and Kanze will be trained in different fields.
Hall will be trained as a photographer’s assistant.
Jackson is assigned to Tuscany.
Kanze is not assigned to Spain.
18.	 Which one of the following could be an acceptable
assignment of photographer’s assistants to stories?
(A)	
	
	
(B)	
	
	
(C)	
	
	
(D)	
	
	
(E)	
	
	

Romania: Farber
Spain: Hall
Tuscany: Jackson
Romania: Gombarick
Spain: Hall
Tuscany: Farber
Romania: Gombarick
Spain: Hall
Tuscany: Lha
Romania: Gombarick
Spain: Lha
Tuscany: Kanze
Romania: Hall
Spain: Kanze
Tuscany: Jackson

(A)	
(B)	
(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

Farber is assigned to Tuscany.
Gombarick is assigned to Romania.
Hall is assigned to Romania.
Kanze is assigned to Tuscany.
Lha is assigned to Spain.

21.	 If Farber is a writer’s assistant, then which one of the
following pairs could be the team of interns assigned to
Romania?
(A)	
(B)	
(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

Farber and Gombarick
Gombarick and Hall
Hall and Kanze
Kanze and Lha
Lha and Hall

22.	 If Gombarick and Kanze are assigned to the same story
as each other, then which one of the following could be
true?
(A)	
(B)	
(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

Farber is assigned to Romania.
Gombarick is assigned to Spain.
Hall is assigned to Romania.
Kanze is assigned to Tuscany.
Lha is assigned to Spain.

23.	 Which one of the following interns CANNOT be
assigned to Tuscany?

19.	 If Farber is assigned to Romania, then which one of the
following must be true?

(A)	Farber
(B)	Gombarick
(C)	Hall
(D)	Kanze
(E)	Lha

Gombarick is assigned to Spain.
Hall is assigned to Spain.
Kanze is assigned to Tuscany.
Lha is assigned to Spain.
Lha is assigned to Tuscany.

Test 3

(A)	
(B)	
(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

20.	 If Farber and Hall are assigned to the same story as each
other, then which one of the following could be true?

S T O P
IF YOU FINISH BEFORE TIME IS CALLED, YOU MAY CHECK YOUR WORK ON THIS SECTION ONLY.
DO NOT WORK ON ANY OTHER SECTION IN THE TEST.

4	

4	4	4	4	
SECTION IV
Time—35 minutes
25 Questions
Directions: The questions in this section are based on the reasoning contained in brief statements or passages. For some questions,
more than one of the choices could conceivably answer the question. However, you are to choose the best answer; that is, the response
that most accurately and completely answers the question. You should not make assumptions that are by commonsense standards
implausible, superfluous, or incompatible with the passage. After you have chosen the best answer, blacken the corresponding space
on your answer sheet.
1.	 A research study revealed that, in most cases, once
existing highways near urban areas are widened and
extended in an attempt to reduce traffic congestion and
resulting delays for motorists, these problems actually
increase rather than decrease.

Test 3

	

Which one of the following, if true, most helps to
explain the discrepancy between the intended results of
the highway improvements and the results revealed in
the study?
(A) 	 Widened and extended roads tend to attract many
more motorists than used them before their
improvement.
(B) 	 Typically, road widening or extension projects
are undertaken only after the population near
the road in question has increased and then
leveled off, leaving a higher average population
level.
(C) 	 As a general rule, the greater the number of lanes
on a given length of highway, the lower the rate
of accidents per 100,000 vehicles traveling on
it.
(D)	 Rural, as compared to urban, traffic usually
includes a larger proportion of trucks and
vehicles used by farmers.
(E)	 Urban traffic generally moves at a slower pace
and involves more congestion and delays than
rural and suburban traffic.

2.	 A study found that consumers reaching supermarket
checkout lines within 40 minutes after the airing of an
advertisement for a given product over the store’s audio
system were significantly more likely to purchase the
product advertised than were consumers who checked
out prior to the airing. Apparently, these advertisements
are effective.
	

Which one of the following, if true, most strengthens
the argument?
(A)	

(B)	

(C)	
(D)	

(E)	

During the study, for most of the advertisements
more people went through the checkout lines
after they were aired than before they were
aired.
A large proportion of the consumers who
bought a product shortly after the airing of an
advertisement for it reported that they had not
gone to the store intending to buy that product.
Many of the consumers reported that they
typically bought at least one of the advertised
products every time they shopped at the store.
Many of the consumers who bought an
advertised product and who reached the
checkout line within 40 minutes of the
advertisement’s airing reported that they could
not remember hearing the advertisement.
Many of the consumers who bought an
advertised product reported that they buy that
product only occasionally.

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

4

4	

4	4	4	4	
3.	 Unless the building permit is obtained by February 1 of
this year or some of the other activities necessary for
construction of the new library can be completed in less
time than originally planned, the new library will not be
completed on schedule. It is now clear that the building
permit cannot be obtained by February 1, so the new
library will not be completed on schedule.
	

(B)	
(C)	

(D)

(E)	

All of the other activities necessary for
construction of the library will take at least as
much time as originally planned.
The officials in charge of construction of the new
library have admitted that it probably will not be
completed on schedule.
The application for a building permit was
submitted on January 2 of this year, and
processing building permits always takes at
least two months.
The application for a building permit was
rejected the first time it was submitted, and it
had to be resubmitted with a revised building
plan.
It is not possible to convince authorities to allow
construction of the library to begin before the
building permit is obtained.

4.	 In a study of patients who enrolled at a sleep clinic
because of insomnia, those who inhaled the scent of
peppermint before going to bed were more likely to
have difficulty falling asleep than were patients who
inhaled the scent of bitter orange. Since it is known that
inhaling bitter orange does not help people fall asleep
more easily, this study shows that inhaling the scent of
peppermint makes insomnia worse.

	

Which one of the following, if true, most seriously
weakens the argument above?
(A)	

(B)	

(C)	

(D)	
(E)	

Several studies have shown that inhaling the
scent of peppermint tends to have a relaxing
effect on people who do not suffer from
insomnia.
The patients who inhaled the scent of bitter
orange were, on average, suffering from milder
cases of insomnia than were the patients who
inhaled the scent of peppermint.
Because the scents of peppermint and bitter
orange are each very distinctive, it was not
possible to prevent the patients from knowing
that they were undergoing some sort of study of
the effects of inhaling various scents.
Some of the patients who enrolled in the sleep
clinic also had difficulty staying asleep once
they fell asleep.
Several studies have revealed that in many cases
inhaling certain pleasant scents can dramatically
affect the degree to which a patient suffers from
insomnia.

The claim that dogs learn best when they are trained
using both voice commands and hand signals figures in
the argument in which one of the following ways?
(A)	
(B)	
(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

It is an explicit premise of the argument.
It is an implicit assumption of the argument.
It is a statement of background information
offered to help facilitate understanding the issue
in the argument.
It is a statement that the argument claims is
supported by the study.
It is an intermediate conclusion that is offered
as direct support for the argument’s main
conclusion.

6.	 Of the many test pilots who have flown the new plane,
none has found it difficult to operate. So it is unlikely
that the test pilot flying the plane tomorrow will find it
difficult to operate.
	

The reasoning in which one of the following arguments
is most similar to the reasoning in the argument above?
(A)	

(B)	

(C)	

(D)	

(E)	

All of the many book reviewers who read
Rachel Nguyen’s new novel thought that it was
particularly well written. So it is likely that the
average reader will enjoy the book.
Many of the book reviewers who read Wim
Jashka’s new novel before it was published
found it very entertaining. So it is unlikely
that most people who buy the book will find it
boring.
Neither of the two reviewers who enjoyed
Sharlene Lo’s new novel hoped that Lo would
write a sequel. So it is unlikely that the review
of the book in next Sunday’s newspaper will
express hope that Lo will write a sequel.
Many reviewers have read Kip Landau’s
new novel, but none of them enjoyed it. So
it is unlikely that the reviewer for the local
newspaper will enjoy the book when she reads
it.
None of the reviewers who have read Gray
Ornsby’s new novel were offended by it. So it is
unlikely that the book will offend anyone in the
general public who reads it.

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

Test 3

	

5.	 Dogs learn best when they are trained using both voice
commands and hand signals. After all, a recent study
shows that dogs who were trained using both voice
commands and hand signals were twice as likely to
obey as were dogs who were trained using only voice
commands.

The conclusion drawn follows logically from the
premises if which one of the following is assumed?
(A)	

4

4	

4	4	4	4	
7.	 Scientist: Any theory that is to be taken seriously must
affect our perception of the world. Of course, this
is not, in itself, enough for a theory to be taken
seriously. To see this, one need only consider
astrology.
	

The point of the scientist’s mentioning astrology in the
argument is to present
(A)	
(B)	
(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

an example of a theory that should not be
taken seriously because it does not affect our
perception of the world
an example of something that should not be
considered a theory
an example of a theory that should not be taken
seriously despite its affecting our perception of
the world
an example of a theory that affects our perception
of the world, and thus should be taken seriously
an example of a theory that should be taken
seriously, even though it does not affect our
perception of the world

9.	 Legal theorist: Governments should not be allowed
to use the personal diaries of an individual
who is the subject of a criminal prosecution as
evidence against that individual. A diary is a silent
conversation with oneself and there is no relevant
difference between speaking to oneself, writing
one’s thoughts down, and keeping one’s thoughts
to oneself.
	

(A)	
(B)	

(C)	

8.	 Clark: Our local community theater often produces
plays by critically acclaimed playwrights. In
fact, the production director says that critical
acclaim is one of the main factors considered in
the selection of plays to perform. So, since my
neighbor Michaela’s new play will be performed
by the theater this season, she must be a critically
acclaimed playwright.
	

The reasoning in Clark’s argument is most vulnerable to
criticism on the grounds that the argument

Test 3

(A)	

(B)	
(C)	

(D)	
(E)	

takes a condition necessary for a playwright’s
being critically acclaimed to be a condition
sufficient for a playwright’s being critically
acclaimed
fails to consider that several different effects may
be produced by a single cause
treats one main factor considered in the selection
of plays to perform as though it were a
condition that must be met in order for a play to
be selected
uses as evidence a source that there is reason to
believe is unreliable
provides no evidence that a playwright’s being
critically acclaimed is the result rather than
the cause of his or her plays being selected for
production

Which one of the following principles, if valid, provides
the most support for the legal theorist’s argument?

(D)	

(E)	

Governments should not be allowed to compel
corporate officials to surrender interoffice
memos to government investigators.
When crime is a serious problem, governments
should be given increased power to investigate
and prosecute suspected wrongdoers, and some
restrictions on admissible evidence should be
relaxed.
Governments should not be allowed to use an
individual’s remarks to prosecute the individual
for criminal activity unless the remarks were
intended for other people.
Governments should not have the power
to confiscate an individual’s personal
correspondence to use as evidence against the
individual in a criminal trial.
Governments should do everything in their
power to investigate and prosecute suspected
wrongdoers.

10.	 A ring of gas emitting X-rays flickering 450 times per
second has been observed in a stable orbit around a
black hole. In light of certain widely accepted physical
theories, that rate of flickering can best be explained if
the ring of gas has a radius of 49 kilometers. But the gas
ring could not maintain an orbit so close to a black hole
unless the black hole was spinning.
	

The statements above, if true, most strongly support
which one of the following, assuming that the widely
accepted physical theories referred to above are correct?
(A)	
(B)	
(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

Black holes that have orbiting rings of gas with
radii greater than 49 kilometers are usually
stationary.
Only rings of gas that are in stable orbits around
black holes emit flickering X-rays.
The black hole that is within the ring of gas
observed by the astronomers is spinning.
X-rays emitted by rings of gas orbiting black
holes cause those black holes to spin.
A black hole is stationary only if it is orbited
by a ring of gas with a radius of more than 49
kilometers.

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

4

4	

4	4	4	4	
11.	 A mass of “black water” containing noxious organic
material swept through Laurel Bay last year. Some
scientists believe that this event was a naturally
occurring but infrequent phenomenon. The black
water completely wiped out five species of coral in
the bay, including mounds of coral that were more
than two centuries old. Therefore, even if this black
water phenomenon has struck the bay before, it did not
reach last year’s intensity at any time in the past two
centuries.
	

(B)	
(C)	
(D)	

(E)	

Masses of black water such as that observed last
summer come into the bay more frequently than
just once every two centuries.
Every species of coral in the bay was seriously
harmed by the mass of black water that swept in
last year.
The mass of black water that swept through
the bay last year did not decimate any plant or
animal species that makes use of coral.
The mounds of centuries-old coral that were
destroyed were not in especially fragile
condition just before the black water swept in
last year.
Older specimens of coral in the bay were more
vulnerable to damage from the influx of black
water than were young specimens.

	

Which one of the following can be properly inferred
from the information above?
(A)	
(B)	

(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

Most nurseries mislabel at least some of their
fruit trees.
Some of the nurseries have correctly labeled
nectarine trees of the Stark Sweet Melody
variety only if the variety is unsuitable for
growing in a tub or a pot.
Any nectarine tree of the Stark Sweet Melody
variety that a nursery labels “miniature” is
labeled incorrectly.
Some nectarine trees that are not labeled
“miniature” are labeled incorrectly.
Unless the Stark Sweet Melody variety of
nectarine tree is suitable for growing in a tub
or a pot, some nurseries mislabel this variety of
tree.

Which one of the following, if true, would most weaken
the psychologist’s argument?
(A)	
(B)	

(C)	
(D)	

(E)	

Many people, including identical twins, undergo
radical changes in their lifestyles at some point
in their lives.
While some studies of identical twins separated
at birth reveal a high percentage of similar
personality traits, they also show a few
differences.
Scientists are far from being able to link any
specific genes to specific inclinations.
Identical twins who grow up together tend to
develop different beliefs, tastes, and careers
in order to differentiate themselves from each
other.
Twins who are not identical tend to develop
different beliefs, tastes, and careers.

14.	 Human beings can live happily only in a society where
love and friendship are the primary motives for actions.
Yet economic needs can be satisfied in the absence of
this condition, as, for example, in a merchant society
where only economic utility motivates action. It is
obvious then that human beings 	
.
	

Which one of the following most logically completes
the argument?
(A)	
(B)	
(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

can live happily only when economic utility is
not a motivator in their society
cannot achieve happiness unless their economic
needs have already been satisfied
cannot satisfy economic needs by means of
interactions with family members and close
friends
can satisfy their basic economic needs without
obtaining happiness
cannot really be said to have satisfied their
economic needs unless they are happy

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

Test 3

12.	 Many nurseries sell fruit trees that they label
“miniature.” Not all nurseries, however, use this term in
the same way. While some nurseries label any nectarine
trees of the Stark Sweet Melody variety as “miniature,”
for example, others do not. One thing that is clear is
that if a variety of fruit tree is not suitable for growing
in a tub or a pot, no tree of that variety can be correctly
labeled “miniature.”
	

13.	 Psychologist: Identical twins are virtually the same
genetically. Moreover, according to some studies,
identical twins separated at birth and brought up
in vastly different environments show a strong
tendency to report similar ethical beliefs, dress
in the same way, and have similar careers. Thus,
many of our inclinations must be genetic in origin,
and not subject to environmental influences.

Which one of the following is an assumption required
by the argument?
(A)	

4

4	

4	4	4	4	
15.	 Technologically, it is already possible to produce
nonpolluting cars that burn hydrogen rather than
gasoline. But the national system of fuel stations that
would be needed to provide the hydrogen fuel for such
cars does not yet exist. However, this infrastructure is
likely to appear and grow rapidly. A century ago no
fuel-distribution infrastructure existed for gasolinepowered vehicles, yet it quickly developed in response
to consumer demand.
	

	

(B)	
(C)	

(D)	
(E)	

It is already technologically possible to produce
nonpolluting cars that burn hydrogen rather than
gasoline.
The fuel-distribution infrastructure for hydrogenpowered cars still needs to be created.
If a new kind of technology is developed, the
infrastructure needed to support that technology
is likely to quickly develop in response to
consumer demands.
The fuel-distribution infrastructure for hydrogenpowered cars is likely to appear and grow
rapidly.
Hydrogen-powered vehicles will be similar to
gasoline-powered vehicles with regard to the
amount of consumer demand for their fueldistribution infrastructure.

The argument is most vulnerable to criticism on the
grounds that it
(A)	

Which one of the following most accurately expresses
the conclusion drawn in the argument?
(A)	

Test 3

16.	 Wildlife management experts should not interfere with
the natural habitats of creatures in the wild, because
manipulating the environment to make it easier for an
endangered species to survive in a habitat invariably
makes it harder for nonendangered species to survive in
that habitat.

(B)	
(C)	

(D)	

(E)	

fails to consider that wildlife management
experts probably know best how to facilitate the
survival of an endangered species in a habitat
fails to recognize that a nonendangered species
can easily become an endangered species
overlooks the possibility that saving an
endangered species in a habitat is incompatible
with preserving the overall diversity of species
in that habitat
presumes, without providing justification,
that the survival of each endangered species
is equally important to the health of the
environment
takes for granted that preserving a currently
endangered species in a habitat does not have
higher priority than preserving species in that
habitat that are not endangered

17.	 Any food that is not sterilized and sealed can contain
disease-causing bacteria. Once sterilized and properly
sealed, however, it contains no bacteria. There are many
different acceptable food-preservation techniques; each
involves either sterilizing and sealing food or else at
least slowing the growth of disease-causing bacteria.
Some of the techniques may also destroy natural food
enzymes that cause food to spoil or discolor quickly.
	

If the statements above are true, which one of the
following must be true?
(A)	
(B)	
(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

All food preserved by an acceptable method is
free of disease-causing bacteria.
Preservation methods that destroy enzymes that
cause food to spoil do not sterilize the food.
Food preserved by a sterilization method is less
likely to discolor quickly than food preserved
with other methods.
Any nonsterilized food preserved by an
acceptable method can contain disease-causing
bacteria.
If a food contains no bacteria, then it has been
preserved by an acceptable method.

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

4

4	

4	4	4	4	
18. Activities that pose risks to life are acceptable if and
only if each person who bears the risks either gains
some net benefit that cannot be had without such risks,
or bears the risks voluntarily.
	

Which one of the following judgments most closely
conforms to the principle above?
(A)	

(B)	

(C)	

(D)	

(E)	

A door-to-door salesperson declines to replace
his older car with a new model with more safety
features; this is acceptable because the decision
not to replace the car is voluntary.
A smoker subjects people to secondhand smoke
at an outdoor public meeting; the resulting
risks are acceptable because the danger from
secondhand smoke is minimal outdoors, where
smoke dissipates quickly.
A motorcyclist rides without a helmet; the risk of
fatal injury to the motorcyclist thus incurred is
acceptable because the motorcyclist incurs this
risk willingly.
Motor vehicles are allowed to emit certain low
levels of pollution; the resulting health risks are
acceptable because all users of motor vehicles
share the resulting benefit of inexpensive,
convenient travel.
A nation requires all citizens to spend two years
in national service; since such service involves
no risk to life, the policy is acceptable.

	

The reasoning in the ecologist’s argument is flawed in
that the argument
(A)	
(B)	
(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

presumes, without providing justification, that
the two theories are incompatible with each
other
draws a conclusion about a cause on the basis of
nothing more than a statistical correlation
treats a condition sufficient for sea butterflies’
ability to avoid predators as a condition required
for this ability
infers, from the claim that no individual member
of a set has a certain effect, that the set as a
whole does not have that effect
draws a conclusion that merely restates material
present in one or more of its premises

20. Principle: One should criticize the works or actions
of another person only if the criticism will not
seriously harm the person criticized and one
does so in the hope or expectation of benefiting
someone other than oneself.
	

Application: Jarrett should not have criticized
Ostertag’s essay in front of the class, since the
defects in it were so obvious that pointing them
out benefited no one.

	

Which one of the following, if true, justifies the above
application of the principle?
(A)	
(B)	
(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

Jarrett knew that the defects in the essay were so
obvious that pointing them out would benefit no
one.
Jarrett’s criticism of the essay would have been
to Ostertag’s benefit only if Ostertag had been
unaware of the defects in the essay at the time.
Jarrett knew that the criticism might antagonize
Ostertag.
Jarrett hoped to gain prestige by criticizing
Ostertag.
Jarrett did not expect the criticism to be to
Ostertag’s benefit.

21. Safety consultant: Judged by the number of injuries per
licensed vehicle, minivans are the safest vehicles
on the road. However, in carefully designed crash
tests, minivans show no greater ability to protect
their occupants than other vehicles of similar
size do. Thus, the reason minivans have such a
good safety record is probably not that they are
inherently safer than other vehicles, but rather that
they are driven primarily by low-risk drivers.
	

Which one of the following, if true, most strengthens
the safety consultant’s argument?
(A)	
(B)	
(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

When choosing what kind of vehicle to drive,
low-risk drivers often select a kind that they
know to perform particularly well in crash tests.
Judged by the number of accidents per licensed
vehicle, minivans are no safer than most other
kinds of vehicles are.
Minivans tend to carry more passengers at any
given time than do most other vehicles.
In general, the larger a vehicle is, the greater its
ability to protect its occupants.
Minivans generally have worse braking and
emergency handling capabilities than other
vehicles of similar size.

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

Test 3

19. Ecologist: One theory attributes the ability of sea
butterflies to avoid predation to their appearance,
while another attributes this ability to various
chemical compounds they produce. Recently we
added each of the compounds to food pellets, one
compound per pellet. Predators ate the pellets no
matter which one of the compounds was present.
Thus the compounds the sea butterflies produce
are not responsible for their ability to avoid
predation.

4

4	

4	4	4	4	
22. Consumer advocate: There is no doubt that the
government is responsible for the increased cost
of gasoline, because the government’s policies
have significantly increased consumer demand
for fuel, and as a result of increasing demand, the
price of gasoline has risen steadily.
	

Which one of the following is an assumption required
by the consumer advocate’s argument?
(A)	
(B)	
(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

The government can bear responsibility for that
which it indirectly causes.
The government is responsible for some
unforeseen consequences of its policies.
Consumer demand for gasoline cannot increase
without causing gasoline prices to increase.
The government has an obligation to ensure that
demand for fuel does not increase excessively.
If the government pursues policies that do not
increase the demand for fuel, gasoline prices
tend to remain stable.

23. A species in which mutations frequently occur
will develop new evolutionary adaptations in
each generation. Since species survive dramatic
environmental changes only if they develop new
evolutionary adaptations in each generation, a species in
which mutations frequently occur will survive dramatic
environmental changes.
	

The flawed pattern of reasoning in which one of
the following is most closely parallel to that in the
argument above?
(A)	

(B)	

(C)	

(D)	

Test 3

(E)	

In a stone wall that is properly built, every stone
supports another stone. Since a wall’s being
sturdy depends upon its being properly built,
only walls that are composed entirely of stones
supporting other stones are sturdy.
A play that is performed before a different
audience every time will never get the same
reaction from any two audiences. Since no plays
are performed before the same audience every
time, no play ever gets the same reaction from
any two audiences.
A person who is perfectly honest will tell the
truth in every situation. Since in order to be a
morally upright person one must tell the truth at
all times, a perfectly honest person will also be
a morally upright person.
An herb garden is productive only if the soil that
it is planted in is well drained. Since soil that is
well drained is good soil, an herb garden is not
productive unless it is planted in good soil.
A diet that is healthful is well balanced. Since
a well-balanced diet includes fruits and
vegetables, one will not be healthy unless one
eats fruits and vegetables.

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

4

4	

4	4	4	4	
24. Music critic: How well an underground rock group’s
recordings sell is no mark of that group’s success
as an underground group. After all, if a recording
sells well, it may be because some of the music
on the recording is too trendy to be authentically
underground; accordingly, many underground
musicians consider it desirable for a recording not
to sell well. But weak sales may simply be the
result of the group’s incompetence.
	

25. Graham: The defeat of the world’s chess champion
by a computer shows that any type of human
intellectual activity governed by fixed principles
can be mastered by machines and thus that a truly
intelligent machine will inevitably be devised.
	

Adelaide: But you are overlooking the fact that the
computer in the case you cite was simply an
extension of the people who programmed it. It
was their successful distillation of the principles
of chess that enabled them to defeat a chess
champion using a computer.

	

The statements above provide the most support for
holding that Graham and Adelaide disagree about
whether

Which one of the following principles, if valid, most
helps to justify the music critic’s argument?
(A)	
(B)	

(C)	

(D)	
(E)	

If an underground rock group is successful as
an underground group, its recordings will sell
neither especially well nor especially poorly.
An underground rock group is unsuccessful as
an underground group if it is incompetent or if
any of its music is too trendy to be authentically
underground, or both.
Whether an underground group’s recordings
meet criteria that many underground musicians
consider desirable is not a mark of that group’s
success.
An underground rock group is successful as an
underground group if the group is competent
but its recordings nonetheless do not sell well.
For an underground rock group, competence and
the creation of authentically underground music
are not in themselves marks of success.

4

(A)	
(B)	
(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

chess is the best example of a human intellectual
activity that is governed by fixed principles
chess is a typical example of the sorts of
intellectual activities in which human beings
characteristically engage
a computer’s defeat of a human chess player is
an accomplishment that should be attributed to
the computer
intelligence can be demonstrated by the
performance of an activity in accord with fixed
principles
tools can be designed to aid in any human
activity that is governed by fixed principles

S T O P
IF YOU FINISH BEFORE TIME IS CALLED, YOU MAY CHECK YOUR WORK ON THIS SECTION ONLY.
DO NOT WORK ON ANY OTHER SECTION IN THE TEST.

Test 3

5

5

5

5

5

SECTION V
Time—35 minutes
27 Questions

Test 3

Directions: Each set of questions in this section is based on a single passage or a pair of passages. The questions are to be answered
on the basis of what is stated or implied in the passage or pair of passages. For some of the questions, more than one of the choices
could conceivably answer the question. However, you are to choose the best answer; that is, the response that most accurately and
completely answers the question, and blacken the corresponding space on your answer sheet.
		 Over the past 50 years, expansive, low-density
communities have proliferated at the edges of many
cities in the United States and Canada, creating a
phenomenon known as suburban sprawl. Andres
(5) 	 Duany, Elizabeth Plater-Zyberk, and Jeff Speck, a
	
group of prominent town planners belonging to a
	
movement called New Urbanism, contend that
suburban sprawl contributes to the decline of civic
life and civility. For reasons involving the flow of
(10) 	 automobile traffic, they note, zoning laws usually
dictate that suburban homes, stores, businesses, and
schools be built in separate areas, and this separation
robs people of communal space where they can
interact and get to know one another. It is as difficult
(15) 	 to imagine the concept of community without a town
square or local pub, these town planners contend, as
it is to imagine the concept of family independent of
the home.
		 Suburban housing subdivisions, Duany and his
(20) 	 colleagues add, usually contain homes identical not
	
only in appearance but also in price, resulting in a de
	
facto economic segregation of residential
neighborhoods. Children growing up in these
neighborhoods, whatever their economic
(25) 	 circumstances, are certain to be ill prepared for life in
	
a diverse society. Moreover, because the widely
separated suburban homes and businesses are
connected only by “collector roads,” residents are
forced to drive, often in heavy traffic, in order to
(30) 	 perform many daily tasks. Time that would in a town
center involve social interaction within a physical
public realm is now spent inside the automobile,
where people cease to be community members and
instead become motorists, competing for road space,
(35) 	 often acting antisocially. Pedestrians rarely act in this
manner toward each other. Duany and his colleagues
advocate development based on early-twentieth
century urban neighborhoods that mix housing of
different prices and offer residents a “gratifying
(40)	 public realm” that includes narrow, tree-lined streets,
	
parks, corner grocery stores, cafes, small
neighborhood schools, all within walking distance.
This, they believe, would give people of diverse
backgrounds and lifestyles an opportunity to interact
(45)	 and thus develop mutual respect.
		 Opponents of New Urbanism claim that migration
to sprawling suburbs is an expression of people’s
legitimate desire to secure the enjoyment and
personal mobility provided by the automobile and the
(50)	 lifestyle that it makes possible. However, the New
Urbanists do not question people’s right to their own
values; instead, they suggest that we should take a

more critical view of these values and of the sprawl	
conducive zoning and subdivision policies that reflect
(55) 	 them. New Urbanists are fundamentally concerned
with the long-term social costs of the now-prevailing
attitude that individual mobility, consumption, and
wealth should be valued absolutely, regardless of their
	
impact on community life.
1.	 Which one of the following most accurately expresses
the main point of the passage?
(A) 	 In their critique of policies that promote
suburban sprawl, the New Urbanists neglect to
consider the interests and values of those who
prefer suburban lifestyles.
(B) 	 The New Urbanists hold that suburban sprawl
inhibits social interaction among people of
diverse economic circumstances, and they
advocate specific reforms of zoning laws as a
solution to this problem.
(C) 	 The New Urbanists argue that most people
find that life in small urban neighborhoods
is generally more gratifying than life in a
suburban environment.
(D) 	 The New Urbanists hold that suburban sprawl
has a corrosive effect on community life, and
as an alternative they advocate development
modeled on small urban neighborhoods.
(E) 	 The New Urbanists analyze suburban sprawl as
a phenomenon that results from short-sighted
traffic policies and advocate changes to these
traffic policies as a means of reducing the
negative effects of sprawl.
2.	 According to the passage, the New Urbanists cite
which one of the following as a detrimental result of
the need for people to travel extensively every day by
automobile?
(A) 	 It imposes an extra financial burden on the
residents of sprawling suburbs, thus detracting
from the advantages of suburban life.
(B) 	 It detracts from the amount of time that people
could otherwise devote to productive employment.
(C) 	 It increases the amount of time people spend in
situations in which antisocial behavior occurs.
(D)
It produces significant amounts of air pollution and
thus tends to harm the quality of people’s lives.
(E) 	 It decreases the amount of time that parents spend
in enjoyable interactions with their children.
GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

5

5

3.	 The passage most strongly suggests that the New
Urbanists would agree with which one of the following
statements?
(A)	

(B)	
(C)	

(D)	
(E)	

The primary factor affecting a neighborhood’s
conduciveness to the maintenance of civility
is the amount of time required to get from one
place to another.
Private citizens in suburbs have little opportunity
to influence the long-term effects of zoning
policies enacted by public officials.
People who live in suburban neighborhoods
usually have little difficulty finding easily
accessible jobs that do not require commuting
to urban centers.
The spatial configuration of suburban
neighborhoods both influences and is influenced
by the attitudes of those who live in them.
Although people have a right to their own values,
personal values should not affect the ways in
which neighborhoods are designed.

4.	 Which one of the following most accurately describes
the author’s use of the word “communities” in line 2
and “community” in line 15?
(A)	
(B)	

(C)	

(E)	

5

5

5.	 Which one of the following, if true, would most weaken
the position that the passage attributes to critics of the
New Urbanists?
(A)	
(B)	

(C)	
(D)	

(E)	

Most people who spend more time than they
would like getting from one daily task to
another live in central areas of large cities.
Most people who often drive long distances for
shopping and entertainment live in small towns
rather than in suburban areas surrounding large
cities.
Most people who have easy access to shopping
and entertainment do not live in suburban areas.
Most people who choose to live in sprawling
suburbs do so because comparable housing in
neighborhoods that do not require extensive
automobile travel is more expensive.
Most people who vote in municipal elections do
not cast their votes on the basis of candidates’
positions on zoning policies.

6.	 The passage most strongly suggests that which one of
the following would occur if new housing subdivisions
in suburban communities were built in accordance with
the recommendations of Duany and his colleagues?
(A)	
(B)	
(C)	
(D)	

(E)	

The need for zoning laws to help regulate traffic
flow would eventually be eliminated.
There would be a decrease in the percentage of
suburban buildings that contain two or more
apartments.
The amount of time that residents of suburbs
spend traveling to the central business districts
of cities for work and shopping would increase.
The need for coordination of zoning policies
between large-city governments and
governments of nearby suburban communities
would be eliminated.
There would be an increase in the per capita
number of grocery stores and schools in those
suburban communities.

7.	 The second paragraph most strongly supports the
inference that the New Urbanists make which one of the
following assumptions?
(A)	
(B)	
(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

Most of those who buy houses in sprawling
suburbs do not pay drastically less than they can
afford.
Zoning regulations often cause economically
uniform suburbs to become economically diverse.
City dwellers who do not frequently travel in
automobiles often have feelings of hostility
toward motorists.
Few residents of suburbs are aware of the
potential health benefits of walking, instead of
driving, to carry out daily tasks.
People generally prefer to live in houses that
look very similar to most of the other houses
around them.
GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

Test 3

(D)	

They are intended to be understood in almost
identical ways, the only significant difference
being that one is plural and the other is singular.
The former is intended to refer to dwellings—
and their inhabitants—that happen to be
clustered together in particular areas; in the
latter, the author means that a group of people
have a sense of belonging together.
In the former, the author means that the groups
referred to are to be defined in terms of the
interests of their members; the latter is intended
to refer generically to a group of people who
have something else in common.
The former is intended to refer to groups of
people whose members have professional
or political ties to one another; the latter is
intended to refer to a geographical area in which
people live in close proximity to one another.
In the former, the author means that there are
informal personal ties among members of
a group of people; the latter is intended to
indicate that a group of people have similar
backgrounds and lifestyles.

5

5

5

Test 3

	
Passage A
		 In ancient Greece, Aristotle documented the
	
ability of foraging honeybees to recruit nestmates to
a good food source. He did not speculate on how the
communication occurred, but he and naturalists since
(5) 	 then have observed that a bee that finds a new
food source returns to the nest and “dances” for its
nestmates. In the 1940s, von Frisch and colleagues
discovered a pattern in the dance. They observed a
foraging honeybee’s dance, deciphered it, and thereby
(10)	 deduced the location of the food source the bee had
discovered. Yet questions still remained regarding the
precise mechanism used to transmit that information.
		 In the 1960s, Wenner and Esch each discovered
independently that dancing honeybees emit low­
(15)	 frequency sounds, which we now know to come
from wing vibrations. Both researchers reasoned that
this might explain the bees’ ability to communicate
effectively even in completely dark nests. But at that
time many scientists mistakenly believed that
(20)	 honeybees lack hearing, so the issue remained
unresolved. Wenner subsequently proposed that
smell rather than hearing was the key to honeybee
communication. He hypothesized that honeybees
derive information not from sound, but from odors the
(25)	 forager conveys from the food source.
		 Yet Gould has shown that foragers can dispatch
bees to sites they had not actually visited, something
that would not be possible if odor were in fact
necessary to bees’ communication. Finally, using a
(30)	 honeybee robot to simulate the forager’s dance,
Kirchner and Michelsen showed that sounds emitted
during the forager’s dance do indeed play an essential
role in conveying information about the food’s
location.
	
Passage B
(35)		 All animals communicate in some sense. Bees
	
dance, ants leave trails, some fish emit high-voltage
signals. But some species—bees, birds, and primates,
for example—communicate symbolically. In an
experiment with vervet monkeys in the wild,
(40)	 Seyfarth, Cheney, and Marler found that prerecorded
vervet alarm calls from a loudspeaker elicited the
same response as did naturally produced vervet calls
alerting the group to the presence of a predator of a
particular type. Vervets looked upward upon hearing
(45)	 an eagle alarm call, and they scanned the ground
below in response to a snake alarm call. These
responses suggest that each alarm call represents, for
vervets, a specific type of predator.
		 Karl von Frisch was first to crack the code of the
(50)	 honeybee’s dance, which he described as “language.”
The dance symbolically represents the distance,
direction, and quality of newly discovered food.
Adrian Wenner and others believed that bees rely on
olfactory cues, as well as the dance, to find a food
(55)	 source, but this has turned out not to be so.
		 While it is true that bees have a simple nervous
system, they do not automatically follow just any

5

5

5

information. Biologist James Gould trained foraging
	

bees to find food in a boat placed in the middle of a
(60)	 lake and then allowed them to return to the hive
to indicate this new location. He found that hive
members ignored the foragers’ instructions,
presumably because no pollinating flowers grow in
such a place.

8.	 The passages have which one of the following aims in
common?
(A)	
(B)	
(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

arguing that certain nonhuman animals possess
human-like intelligence
illustrating the sophistication with which certain
primates communicate
describing certain scientific studies concerned
with animal communication
airing a scientific controversy over the function
of the honeybee’s dance
analyzing the conditions a symbolic system must
meet in order to be considered a language

9.	 Which one of the following statements most accurately
characterizes a difference between the two passages?
(A)	

(B)	

(C)	

(D)	

(E)	

Passage A is concerned solely with honeybee
communication, whereas passage B is
concerned with other forms of animal
communication as well.
Passage A discusses evidence adduced by
scientists in support of certain claims, whereas
passage B merely presents some of those claims
without discussing the support that has been
adduced for them.
Passage B is entirely about recent theories of
honeybee communication, whereas passage A
outlines the historic development of theories of
honeybee communication.
Passage B is concerned with explaining the
distinction between symbolic and nonsymbolic
communication, whereas passage A, though
making use of the distinction, does not explain
it.
Passage B is concerned with gaining insight into
human communication by considering certain
types of nonhuman communication, whereas
passage A is concerned with these types of
nonhuman communication in their own right.

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

5

5

10.	 Which one of the following statements is most strongly
supported by Gould’s research, as reported in the two
passages?
(A)	

(B)	
(C)	
(D)	

(E)	

When a forager honeybee does not communicate
olfactory information to its nestmates, they will
often disregard the forager’s directions and go
to sites of their own choosing.
Forager honeybees instinctively know where
pollinating flowers usually grow and will not
dispatch their nestmates to any other places.
Only experienced forager honeybees are able to
locate the best food sources.
A forager’s dances can draw other honeybees to
sites that the forager has not visited and can fail
to draw other honeybees to sites that the forager
has visited.
Forager honeybees can communicate with their
nestmates about a newly discovered food source
by leaving a trail from the food source to the
honeybee nest.

5

5

5

11.	 It can be inferred from the passages that the author of
passage A and the author of passage B would accept
which one of the following statements?
(A)	
(B)	
(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

Honeybees will ignore the instructions conveyed
in the forager’s dance if they are unable to
detect odors from the food source.
Wenner and Esch established that both sound
and odor play a vital role in most honeybee
communication.
Most animal species can communicate
symbolically in some form or other.
The work of von Frisch was instrumental in
answering fundamental questions about how
honeybees communicate.
Inexperienced forager honeybees that dance
to communicate with other bees in their nest
learn the intricacies of the dance from more
experienced foragers.

12.	 Which one of the following most accurately describes a
relationship between the two passages?
(A)	
(B)	
(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

Test 3

Passage A discusses and rejects a position that is
put forth in passage B.
Passage A gives several examples of a
phenomenon for which passage B gives only
one example.
Passage A is concerned in its entirety with
a phenomenon that passage B discusses in
support of a more general thesis.
Passage A proposes a scientific explanation for
a phenomenon that passage B argues cannot be
plausibly explained.
Passage A provides a historical account of the
origins of a phenomenon that is the primary
concern of passage B.

Test 3

5

5

		 Most scholars of Mexican American history mark
	
César Chávez’s unionizing efforts among Mexican
and Mexican American farm laborers in California as
the beginning of Chicano political activism in the
(5)	 1960s. By 1965, Chávez’s United Farm Workers
Union gained international recognition by initiating
a worldwide boycott of grapes in an effort to get
growers in California to sign union contracts. The
year 1965 also marks the birth of contemporary
(10)	 Chicano theater, for that is the year Luis Valdez
approached Chávez about using theater to organize
farm workers. Valdez and the members of the
resulting Teatro Campesino are generally credited by
scholars as having initiated the Chicano theater
(15)	 movement, a movement that would reach its apex in
the 1970s.
		 In the fall of 1965, Valdez gathered a group of
striking farm workers and asked them to talk about
their working conditions. A former farm worker
(20)	 himself, Valdez was no stranger to the players in the
daily drama that was fieldwork. He asked people to
illustrate what happened on the picket lines, and the
less timid in the audience delighted in acting out their
ridicule of the strikebreakers. Using the farm
(25)	 workers’ basic improvisations, Valdez guided the
group toward the creation of what he termed “actos,”
skits or sketches whose roots scholars have traced
to various sources that had influenced Valdez as a
student and as a member of the San Francisco Mime
(30)	 Troupe. Expanding beyond the initial setting of
flatbed-truck stages at the fields’ edges, the acto
became the quintessential form of Chicano theater
in the 1960s. According to Valdez, the acto should
suggest a solution to the problems exposed in the
(35)	 brief comic statement, and, as with any good political
theater, it should satirize the opposition and inspire
the audience to social action. Because actos were
based on participants’ personal experiences, they had
palpable immediacy.
(40)		 In her book El Teatro Campesino, Yolanda BroylesGonzález rightly criticizes theater historians for
having tended to credit Valdez individually with
inventing actos as a genre, as if the striking farm
workers’ improvisational talent had depended entirely
(45)	 on his vision and expertise for the form it took. She
traces especially the actos’ connections to a similar
genre of informal, often satirical shows known as
	
carpas that were performed in tents to mainly
working-class audiences. Carpas had flourished
(50)	 earlier in the twentieth century in the border area of
Mexico and the United States. Many participants in
the formation of the Teatro no doubt had substantial
cultural links to this tradition and likely adapted it to
their improvisations. The early development of the
(55)	 Teatro Campesino was, in fact, a collective
accomplishment; still, Valdez’s artistic contribution
was a crucial one, for the resulting actos were neither
carpas nor theater in the European tradition of
Valdez’s academic training, but a distinctive genre
(60)	 with connections to both.

5

5

5

13.	 Which one of the following most accurately expresses
the main point of the passage?
(A)	

(B)	

(C)	

(D)	

(E)	

Some theater historians have begun to challenge
the once widely accepted view that in creating
the Teatro Campesino, Luis Valdez was largely
uninfluenced by earlier historical forms.
In crediting Luis Valdez with founding the
Chicano theater movement, theater historians
have neglected the role of César Chávez in its
early development.
Although the creation of the early material
of the Teatro Campesino was a collective
accomplishment, Luis Valdez’s efforts and
expertise were essential factors in determining
the form it took.
The success of the early Teatro Campesino
depended on the special insights and talents of
the amateur performers who were recruited by
Luis Valdez to participate in creating actos.
Although, as Yolanda Broyles-González has
pointed out, the Teatro Campesino was a
collective endeavor, Luis Valdez’s political
and academic connections helped bring it
recognition.

14.	 The author uses the word “immediacy” (line 39) most
likely in order to express
(A)	
(B)	
(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

how little physical distance there was between
the performers in the late 1960s actos and their
audiences
the sense of intimacy created by the performers’
technique of addressing many of their lines
directly to the audience
the ease with which the Teatro Campesino
members were able to develop actos based on
their own experiences
how closely the director and performers of the
Teatro Campesino worked together to build a
repertoire of actos
how vividly the actos conveyed the performers’
experiences to their audiences

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

5

5

15.	 The second sentence of the passage functions primarily
in which one of the following ways?
(A)	
(B)	
(C)	

(D)	

(E)	

It helps explain both a motivation of those who
developed the first actos and an important
aspect of their subject matter.
It introduces a major obstacle that Valdez had to
overcome in gaining public acceptance of the
work of the Teatro Campesino.
It anticipates and counters a possible objection
to the author’s view that the actos developed
by Teatro Campesino were effective as political
theater.
It provides an example of the type of topic on
which scholars of Mexican American history
have typically focused to the exclusion of
theater history.
It helps explain why theater historians, in their
discussions of Valdez, have often treated him
as though he were individually responsible for
inventing actos as a genre.

16.	 The passage indicates that the early actos of the Teatro
Campesino and the carpas were similar in that
(A)	
(B)	
(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

both had roots in theater in the European
tradition
both were studied by the San Francisco Mime
Troupe
both were initially performed on farms
both often involved satire
both were part of union organizing drives

17.	 It can be inferred from the passage that Valdez most
likely held which one of the following views?
(A)	

(C)	

(D)	
(E)	

5

5

18.	 Based on the passage, it can be concluded that the
author and Broyles-González hold essentially the same
attitude toward
(A)	
(B)	
(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

the influences that shaped carpas as a dramatic
genre
the motives of theater historians in exaggerating
the originality of Valdez
the significance of carpas for the development of
the genre of the acto
the extent of Valdez’s acquaintance with carpas
as a dramatic form
the role of the European tradition in shaping
Valdez’s contribution to the development of
actos

19.	 The information in the passage most strongly supports
which one of the following statements regarding the
Teatro Campesino?
(A)	
(B)	
(C)	
(D)	

(E)	

Its efforts to organize farm workers eventually
won the acceptance of a few farm owners in
California.
It included among its members a number of
individuals who, like Valdez, had previously
belonged to the San Francisco Mime Troupe.
It did not play a major role in the earliest efforts
of the United Farm Workers Union to achieve
international recognition.
Although its first performances were entirely in
Spanish, it eventually gave some performances
partially in English, for the benefit of nonSpanish-speaking audiences.
Its work drew praise not only from critics in the
United States but from critics in Mexico as well.

20.	 The passage most strongly supports which one of the
following?
(A)	The carpas tradition has been widely discussed
and analyzed by both U.S. and Mexican
theater historians concerned with theatrical
performance styles and methods.
(B)	 Comedy was a prominent feature of Chicano
theater in the 1960s.
(C)	 In directing the actos of the Teatro Campesino,
Valdez went to great lengths to simulate or
recreate certain aspects of what audiences had
experienced in the carpas.
(D)	 Many of the earliest actos were based on scripts
composed by Valdez, which the farm-worker
actors modified to suit their own diverse
aesthetic and pragmatic interests.
(E)	 By the early 1970s, Valdez was using actos as
the basis for other theatrical endeavors and was
no longer directly associated with the Teatro
Campesino.
GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

Test 3

(B)	

As a theatrical model, the carpas of the early
twentieth century were ill-suited to the type of
theater that he and the Teatro Campesino were
trying to create.
César Chávez should have done more to support
the efforts of the Teatro Campesino to use
theater to organize striking farm workers.
Avant-garde theater in the European tradition is
largely irrelevant to the theatrical expression
of the concerns of a mainly working-class
audience.
Actors do not require formal training in order
to achieve effective and artistically successful
theatrical performances.
The aesthetic aspects of a theatrical work should
be evaluated independently of its political
ramifications.

5

Test 3

5

5

		 In October 1999, the Law Reform Commission of
	
Western Australia (LRCWA) issued its report,
“Review of the Civil and Criminal Justice System.”
Buried within its 400 pages are several important
(5)	 recommendations for introducing contingency fees for
	
lawyers’ services into the state of Western Australia.
Contingency-fee agreements call for payment only if
the lawyer is successful in the case. Because of the
lawyer’s risk of financial loss, such charges generally
(10)	 exceed regular fees.
		 Although there are various types of contingencyfee arrangements, the LRCWA has recommended
that only one type be introduced: “uplift” fee
arrangements, which in the case of a successful
(15)	 outcome require the client to pay the lawyer’s normal
fee plus an agreed-upon additional percentage of that
fee. This restriction is intended to prevent lawyers
from gaining disproportionately from awards of
damages and thus to ensure that just compensation to
(20)	 plaintiffs is not eroded. A further measure toward this
	
end is found in the recommendation that contingencyfee agreements should be permitted only in cases
where two conditions are satisfied: first, the
	
contingency-fee arrangement must be used only as a
(25)	 last resort when all means of avoiding such an
arrangement have been exhausted; and second, the
lawyer must be satisfied that the client is financially
unable to pay the fee in the event that sufficient
damages are not awarded.
(30)		 Unfortunately, under this recommendation,
	
lawyers wishing to enter into an uplift fee
arrangement would be forced to investigate not only
the legal issues affecting any proposed litigation, but
	
also the financial circumstances of the potential client
(35)	 and the probable cost of the litigation. This process
would likely be onerous for a number of reasons, not
	
least of which is the fact that the final cost of
litigation depends in large part on factors that may
change as the case unfolds, such as strategies adopted
(40)	 by the opposing side.
		 In addition to being burdensome for lawyers, the
	
proposal to make contingency-fee agreements
available only to the least well-off clients would be
unfair to other clients. This restriction would unjustly
(45)	 limit freedom of contract and would, in effect, make
certain types of litigation inaccessible to middleincome people or even wealthy people who might not
be able to liquidate assets to pay the costs of a trial.
More importantly, the primary reasons for entering
(50)	 into contingency-fee agreements hold for all clients.
	
First, they provide financing for the costs of pursuing
a legal action. Second, they shift the risk of not
recovering those costs, and of not obtaining a
	
damages award that will pay their lawyer’s fees, from
(55)	 the client to the lawyer. Finally, given the
convergence of the lawyer’s interest and the client’s
interest under a contingency-fee arrangement, it is
reasonable to assume that such arrangements increase
lawyers’ diligence and commitment to their cases.

5

5

5

21.	 As described in the passage, the uplift fee agreements
that the LRCWA’s report recommends are most closely
analogous to which one of the following arrangements?
(A)	

(B)	

(C)	

(D)	

(E)	

People who join together to share the costs of
purchasing lottery tickets on a regular basis
agree to share any eventual proceeds from a
lottery drawing in proportion to the amounts
they contributed to tickets purchased for that
drawing.
A consulting firm reviews a company’s
operations. The consulting firm will receive
payment only if it can substantially reduce the
company’s operating expenses, in which case it
will be paid double its usual fee.
The returns that accrue from the assumption of
a large financial risk by members of a business
partnership formed to develop and market a new
invention are divided among them in proportion
to the amount of financial risk each assumed.
The cost of an insurance policy is determined
by reference to the likelihood and magnitude
of an eventual loss covered by the insurance
policy and the administrative and marketing
costs involved in marketing and servicing the
insurance policy.
A person purchasing a property receives a loan
for the purchase from the seller. In order to
reduce risk, the seller requires the buyer to pay
for an insurance policy that will pay off the loan
if the buyer is unable to do so.

22.	 The passage states which one of the following?
(A)	
(B)	

(C)	

(D)	

(E)	

Contingency-fee agreements serve the purpose
of transferring the risk of pursuing a legal action
from the client to the lawyer.
Contingency-fee agreements of the kind the
LRCWA’s report recommends would normally
not result in lawyers being paid larger fees than
they deserve.
At least some of the recommendations in the
LRCWA’s report are likely to be incorporated
into the legal system in the state of Western
Australia.
Allowing contingency-fee agreements of the sort
recommended in the LRCWA’s report would
not affect lawyers’ diligence and commitment
to their cases.
Usually contingency-fee agreements involve an
agreement that the fee the lawyer receives will
be an agreed-upon percentage of the client’s
damages.

GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE.

5

5

5

23.	 The author’s main purpose in the passage is to
(A)	
(B)	
(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

defend a proposed reform against criticism
identify the current shortcomings of a legal
system and suggest how these should be
remedied
support the view that a recommended change
would actually worsen the situation it was
intended to improve
show that a legal system would not be
significantly changed if certain proposed
reforms were enacted
explain a suggested reform and critically evaluate
it

24.	 Which one of the following is given by the passage
as a reason for the difficulty a lawyer would have in
determining whether—according to the LRCWA’s
recommendations—a prospective client was qualified to
enter into an uplift agreement?
(A)	
(B)	
(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

The length of time that a trial may last is difficult
to predict in advance.
Not all prospective clients would wish to reveal
detailed information about their financial
circumstances.
Some factors that may affect the cost of litigation
can change after the litigation begins.
Uplift agreements should only be used as a last
resort.
Investigating whether a client is qualified to enter
into an uplift agreement would take time away
from investigating the legal issues of the case.

5
26.	 According to the passage, the LRCWA’s report
recommended that contingency-fee agreements
(A)	

be used only when it is reasonable to think
that such arrangements will increase lawyers’
diligence and commitment to their cases
(B)	 be used only in cases in which clients are
unlikely to be awarded enormous damages
(C)	 be used if the lawyer is not certain that the client
seeking to file a lawsuit could pay the lawyer’s
regular fee if the suit were to be unsuccessful
(D) 	 not be used in cases in which another type of
arrangement is practicable
(E) 	 not be used except in cases where the lawyer is
reasonably sure that the client will win damages
sufficiently large to cover the lawyer’s fees
27.	 Which one of the following, if true, most seriously
undermines the author’s criticism of the LRCWA’s
recommendations concerning contingency-fee
agreements?
(A)	

(B)	

(C)	

25.	 The phrase “gaining disproportionately from awards of
damages” (lines 18–19) is most likely intended by the
author to mean

(B)	

(C)	
(D)	
(E)	

receiving a payment that is of greater monetary
value than the legal services rendered by the
lawyer
receiving a higher portion of the total amount
awarded in damages than is reasonable
compensation for the professional services
rendered and the amount of risk assumed
receiving a higher proportion of the damages
awarded to the client than the client considers
fair
receiving a payment that is higher than the
lawyer would have received had the client’s
case been unsuccessful
receiving a higher proportion of the damages
awarded to the client than the judge or the jury
that awarded the damages intended the lawyer
to receive

(D)	

(E)	

The proportion of lawsuits filed by the least welloff litigants tends to be higher in areas where
uplift fee arrangements have been widely used
than in areas in which uplift agreements have
not been used.
Before the LRCWA’s recommendations, lawyers
in Western Australia generally made a careful
evaluation of prospective clients’ financial
circumstances before accepting cases that might
involve complex or protracted litigation.
There is strong opposition in Western Australia to
any legal reform perceived as favoring lawyers,
so it is highly unlikely that the LRCWA’s
recommendations concerning contingency-fee
agreements will be implemented.
The total fees charged by lawyers who
successfully litigate cases under uplift fee
arrangements are, on average, only marginally
higher than the total fees charged by lawyers
who litigate cases without contingency
agreements.
In most jurisdictions in which contingency-fee
agreements are allowed, those of the uplift
variety are used much less often than are other
types of contingency-fee agreements.

S T O P
IF YOU FINISH BEFORE TIME IS CALLED, YOU MAY CHECK YOUR WORK ON THIS SECTION ONLY.
DO NOT WORK ON ANY OTHER SECTION IN THE TEST.

Test 3

(A)	

5

PowerScore Practice Test 3
Experimental Section Answer Key
(From the December 1996 LSAT)
Section II - Logical Reasoning
	

Credited
Response
		

	 1.	B
	 2.	C
	 3.	B
	 4.	D
	 5.	C

Test 3

	 6.	B
	 7.	B
	 8.	E
	 9.	E
	10.	 A
	11.	
	12.	
	13.	
	14.	
	15.	

C
B
D
C
A

	16.	
	17.	
	18.	
	19.	
	20.	

E
C
A
C
D

	21.	
	22.	
	23.	
	24.	
	25.	
	

A
E
B
A
E

Note: Online scoring will provide a more complete picture of your performance.

COMPUTING YOUR SCORE
Directions:
1.	 Use the Answer Key on the next page to check your
answers.
2. 	 Use the Scoring Worksheet below to compute your
raw score.
3. 	 Use the Score Conversion Chart to convert your raw
score into the 120-180 scale.

Scoring Worksheet
1. 	 Enter the number of questions you answered
correctly in each section.
		
		

Number
Correct

SECTION I..................
SECTION II.................
SECTION III................
SECTION IV...............
2. 	 Enter the sum here:	
		
This is your Raw Score.

Conversion Chart:
For Converting Raw Score to the 120-180 LSAT
Scaled Score
LSAT Form 1LSN84
	 Reported		
Raw Score
	 Score	
Lowest	
Highest
97
96
—*
95
94
93
92
91
90
89
87
86
85
83
82
80
79
77
75
74
72
70
68
67
65
63
62
60
58
56
55
53
51
50
48
47
45
43
42
40
39
37
36
35
33
32
31
29
28
27
26
25
24
23
22
21
20
19
18
17
0

99
96
—*
95
94
93
92
91
90
89
88
86
85
84
82
81
79
78
76
74
73
71
69
67
66
64
62
61
59
57
55
54
52
50
49
47
46
44
42
41
39
38
36
35
34
32
31
30
28
27
26
25
24
23
22
21
20
19
18
17
16

*There is no raw score that will produce this scaled score for this form.

Test 3

180
179
178
177
176
175
174
173
172
171
170
169
168
167
166
165
164
163
162
161
160
159
158
157
156
155
154
153
152
151
150
149
148
147
146
145
144
143
142
141
140
139
138
137
136
135
134
133
132
131
130
129
128
127
126
125
124
123
122
121
120

Test 3

S C A N T R O N

®

SIDE 1

EliteView™ EM-286024-1:654321

INSTRUCTIONS FOR COMPLETING THE BIOGRAPHICAL AREA ARE ON THE BACK COVER OF YOUR TEST BOOKLET.
USE ONLY A NO. 2 OR HB PENCIL TO COMPLETE THIS ANSWER SHEET. DO NOT USE INK.
Right Mark

LAST NAME

FIRST NAME

A
B

A
B

A
B

A
B

A
B

A
B

A
B

A
B

A
B

A
B

A
B

A
B

A
B

A
B

A
B

A
B

A
B

A
B

A
B

A
B

A
B

C
D
E
F
G
H

C
D
E
F
G
H

C
D
E
F
G
H

C
D
E
F
G
H

C
D
E
F
G
H

C
D
E
F
G
H

C
D
E
F
G
H

C
D
E
F
G
H

C
D
E
F
G
H

C
D
E
F
G
H

C
D
E
F
G
H

C
D
E
F
G
H

C
D
E
F
G
H

C
D
E
F
G
H

C
D
E
F
G
H

C
D
E
F
G
H

C
D
E
F
G
H

C
D
E
F
G
H

C
D
E
F
G
H

C
D
E
F
G
H

C
D
E
F
G
H

I
J
K
L
M
N

I
J
K
L
M
N

I
J
K
L
M
N

I
J
K
L
M
N

I
J
K
L
M
N

I
J
K
L
M
N

I
J
K
L
M
N

I
J
K
L
M
N

I
J
K
L
M
N

I
J
K
L
M
N

I
J
K
L
M
N

I
J
K
L
M
N

I
J
K
L
M
N

I
J
K
L
M
N

I
J
K
L
M
N

I
J
K
L
M
N

I
J
K
L
M
N

I
J
K
L
M
N

I
J
K
L
M
N

I
J
K
L
M
N

I
J
K
L
M
N

O

O

O

O

O

O

O

O

O

O

O

O

O

O

O

O

O

O

O

O

O

P

P

P

P

P

P

P

P

P

P

P

P

P

P

P

P

P

P

P

P

P

Q

Q

Q

Q

Q

Q

Q

Q

Q

Q

Q

Q

Q

Q

Q

Q

Q

Q

Q

Q

Q

R
S
T

R
S
T

R
S
T

R
S
T

R
S
T

R
S
T

R
S
T

R
S
T

R
S
T

R
S
T

R
S
T

R
S
T

R
S
T

R
S
T

R
S
T

R
S
T

R
S
T

R
S
T

R
S
T

R
S
T

R
S
T

U
V
W
X
Y
Z

U
V
W
X
Y
Z

U
V
W
X
Y
Z

U
V
W
X
Y
Z

U
V
W
X
Y
Z

U
V
W
X
Y
Z

U
V
W
X
Y
Z

U
V
W
X
Y
Z

U
V
W
X
Y
Z

U
V
W
X
Y
Z

U
V
W
X
Y
Z

U
V
W
X
Y
Z

U
V
W
X
Y
Z

U
V
W
X
Y
Z

U
V
W
X
Y
Z

U
V
W
X
Y
Z

U
V
W
X
Y
Z

U
V
W
X
Y
Z

U
V
W
X
Y
Z

U
V
W
X
Y
Z

U
V
W
X
Y
Z

8

9

GENDER

Male
Female

10

DOMINANT
LANGUAGE

English
Other

2

MI

Yes
No

0
1
2
3
4
5
6

0
1
2
3
4
5
6

0
1
2
3
4
5
6

0
1
2
3
4
5
6

0
1
2
3
4
5
6

0
1
2
3
4
5
6

0
1
2
3
4
5
6

0
1
2
3
4
5
6

0
1
2
3
4
5
6

0
1
2
3
4
5
6

0
1
2
3
4
5
6

0
1
2
3
4
5
6

0
1
2
3
4
5
6

0
1
2
3
4
5
6

0

2
3
4
5
6

0
1
2
3
4
5
6

1
2
3
4
5
6

0
1
2
3
4
5
6

0
1
2
3
4
5
6

0
1
2
3
4
5
6

7
8
9

7
8
9

7
8
9

7
8
9

7
8
9

7
8
9

7
8
9

7
8
9

7
8
9

7
8
9

7
8
9

7
8
9

7
8
9

7
8
9

7
8
9

7
8
9

7
8
9

7
8
9

7
8
9

7
8
9

7
8
9

5

6

DATE OF BIRTH
MONTH DAY YEAR

Jan
Feb
Mar
Apr
May
June
July
Aug
Sept
Oct
Nov
Dec

0
1
2
3

0
1
2
3

0
1
2
3

0
1
2
3

0
1
2
3

0
1
2
3

0
1
2
3

0
1
2
3

0
1
2
3

0
1
2
3

0
1
2
3

4
5
6
7
8

4
5
6
7
8

4
5
6
7
8

4
5
6
7
8

4
5
6
7
8

4
5
6
7
8

4
5
6
7
8

4
5
6
7
8

4
5
6
7
8

4
5
6
7
8

9

9

9

9

9

9

9

9

9

9

12

TEST DATE

MONTH

DAY

A
A
A

B
B
B

C
C
C

D
D
D

E
E
E

A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A

B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B

C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C

D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D

E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E

A
A

B
B

C
C

D
D

E
E

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30

SECTION 2
A
A
A

B
B
B

C
C
C

D
D
D

E
E
E

A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A

B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B

C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C

D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D

E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E

A
A

B
B

C
C

D
D

E
E

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30

SECTION 3
A
A
A

B
B
B

C
C
C

D
D
D

E
E
E

A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A

B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B

C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C

D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D

E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E

A
A

B
B

C
C

D
D

E
E

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30

7

TEST
FORM CODE

RACIAL/ETHNIC
DESCRIPTION
Mark one or more

1 Amer. Indian/Alaska Native
2 Asian
3 Black/African American
4 Canadian Aboriginal
5 Caucasian/White
6 Hispanic/Latino
7 Native Hawaiian/
Other Pacific Islander
8 Puerto Rican
9 TSI/Aboriginal Australian

TEST FORM

YEAR

13

Mark one and only one answer to each question. Be sure to fill in completely the space for your
intended answer choice. If you erase, do so completely. Make no stray marks.
SECTION 1

CENTER
NUMBER

0
1
2
3
4
5
6

Law School Admission Test

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30

4

LSAC
ACCOUNT NUMBER

L
0
1

11

ENGLISH
FLUENCY

3

SOCIAL SECURITY/
SOCIAL INSURANCE NO.

SECTION 4
A
A
A

B
B
B

C
C
C

D
D
D

E
E
E

A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A

B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B

C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C

D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D

E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E

A
A

B
B

C
C

D
D

E
E

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30

SECTION 5
A
A
A

B
B
B

C
C
C

D
D
D

E
E
E

A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A

B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B

C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C

D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D

E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E

A
A

B
B

C
C

D
D

E
E

14

TEST BOOK
SERIAL NO.

A
B
C
D
E
F

A
B
C
D
E
F

0
1
2
3
4
5

0
1
2
3
4
5

0
1
2
3
4
5

0
1
2
3
4
5

0
1
2
3
4
5

0
1
2
3
4
5

G
H
I
J
K
L
M
N

G
H
I
J
K
L
M
N

6
7
8
9

6
7
8
9

6
7
8
9

6
7
8
9

6
7
8
9

6
7
8
9

O

O

P

P

Q

Q

R
S
T

R
S
T

PLEASE PRINT INFORMATION

LAST NAME

FIRST

SSN/SIN

DATE OF BIRTH
© 2011 BY LAW SCHOOL ADMISSION COUNCIL.
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. PRINTED IN USA.
A

B
C

1

A

Wrong Marks

✓ ✗

C

USE A NO. 2 OR HB PENCIL ONLY

